## 2023 Meetings

|Date | Chair | Note-taker | Topic |
|---|---|---|---|
|January 30, 2023|Paige|Chris|FotW: Abstract, Description, Notes, Table of Contents|
|February 13, 2023|Rosie|Paige|FotW: Language|
|February 27, 2023|Chris|Paige|FotW: Physical Description: Extent & Physical Form|
|March 13, 2023|Paige|Rosie|Citation Block CSL mappings|

## 2022 Meetings

|Date | Chair | Note-taker | Topic |
|---|---|---|---|
|August 29, 2022|Rosie|Chris|FotW: Title|
|September 12, 2022|Chris|Paige|FotW: Field Model, Resource Type, and Genre|
|September 25, 2022|Paige|Chris|Taxonomy Management discussion|
|October 24, 2022|Chris|Paige|FotW: Linked Agent|
|November 7, 2022|Rosie|Chris|FotW: Identifiers|
|November 21, 2022|Paige|Rosie|FotW: Publication Info|
|December 5, 2022|Chris|Paige|FotW: Subjects|
|December 19, 2022|Rosie|Paige|FotW: End of Year Summary|



## Pre-2021

|Date | Chair | Note-taker | Topic |
|---|---|---|---|
|August 26, 2019|Rosie|Tillay|Mapping Vizualizations|
|September 9, 2019|Tillay|Mike|Defining an Islandora Object|
|September 23, 2019|Mike|Rosie|Defining an Islandora Object 2|
|October 7, 2019|no meeting|no meeting|Meeting canceled for IslandoraCon|
|October 21, 2019|Tillay|Mike|Demonstration of CSV Migration part 1|
|November 4, 2019|Mike|Rosie|Demonstration of CSV Migration part 2|
|November 18, 2019|Rosie|Tillay|Demonstration of CSV Migration part 3|
|December 2, 2019|Tillay|Mike|[Discuss Access Terms PR](https://github.com/Islandora/controlled_access_terms/pull/35); Review Participants.md|
|December 16, 2019|Mike|Rosie|Creating a Metadata Application Profile|
|December 30, 2019|no meeting|no meeting|co-convener libraries are closed|
|January 13, 2020|Rosie|Tillay|Metadata Application Profile Discussion Cont.|
|February 10, 2020|Tillay|Mike|Metadata Management tool with Mark Jordan |
|February 24, 2020|Mike|Rosie|Discussion: Mapping feedback|
|March 9, 2020|Rosie|Tillay|Discussion: Feedback on Mapping from ICG part 1|
|March 23, 2020|Tillay|Mike|Discussion: Feedback on Mapping from ICG part 2|
|April 6, 2020|Mike|Rosie|accessCondition and sharing custom mapping use cases|
|April 20, 2020|Rosie|Tillay|Mapping to RDF from MODS discussion|
|May 4, 2020|Tillay|Mike|Mapping discussion comparing MODS, DC Elements and DC terms|
|May 18, 2020|Mike|Rosie|Discussion of Wants/Needs/Questions document|
|June 1, 2020|Rosie|Tillay|Simple mapping proposal|
|June 15, 2020|Tillay|Mike|Islandora online and Metadata sprint|
|June 29, 2020|Mike|Rosie||
|July 13, 2020|Rosie|Tillay|Discussion on projects, tools, and other topics|
|July 27, 2020|**Meeting Cancelled**|||
|August 10, 2020|Tillay|Mike|Islandora Online Discussion|
|August 24, 2020|Mike|Rosie|Update of Mapping/Open Meeting| 
|September 7, 2020|No Meetings||
|September 21, 2020|Rosie|Tillay||
|October 5, 2020|Tillay|Mike||
|October 19, 2020|Mike|Rosie|| 
|November 2, 2020|Rosie|Tillay||
|November 16, 2020|Tillay|Mike||
|November 30, 2020|Mike|Rosie|| 
|December 14, 2020|Rosie|Tillay||
|January 11, 2021|Tillay|Paige|Preparing for 2021|
|January 25, 2021|Kristina|Paige/Tillay|Possibilities discussion|
|February 2, 2021|Kristina|Paige|Presentation looking behind the scenes at Drupal and Islandora|
|February 22, 2021|Kristina|Paige|Sprint planning|
|March 8, 2021|Kristina|Paige|Sprint Kickoff meeting|
|March 22, 2021|Kristina|Paige|Sprint Review|
|April 5, 2021|Kristina|Paige|Post-Sprint Steps and Priorities Survey|
|April 19, 2021|Kristina|Paige|Linked Agend and Default Mapping Discussion|
|May 3, 2021|Kristina|Paige|Agent Field and Demo of default work|
|May 17, 2021|Kristina|Paige|Use-case Documentation|
|June 14, 2021|Kristina|Paige|Survey results and Islandora Tech Call|
|June 28, 2021|Kristina|Paige|LYRASIS Migration Work Demo and Temprature check on Simple DC|
|July 19, 2021|Kristina|Paige|Taxonomy in Drupal Presentation and Glossary Sprint|
|August 02, 2021|Kristina|Paige|Glossary Sprint Check-in and Taxonomy Use Case document|
|August 16, 2021|Kristina|Paige|Sprint work and Islandora Input Request Document|
|August 30, 2021|**Meeting Cancelled**||Pause for summer|
|September 13, 2021|**Meeting Cancelled**||Pause for summer|
|September 27, 2021|Kristina|Paige|Use Cases, Taxonomy Manager and Drupal Discussion|
|October 11, 2021|**Meeting Cancelled**||Holiday|
|October 25, 2021|Kristina|Paige|Github contribution and Metadata Schema Question|
|November 08, 2021|Kristina|Paige|Importance of Drupal Fields and Sprint|
|November 22, 2021|Kristina|Mike|Question about Local Contexts and Sprint Discussion/Use Cases|
|December 06, 2021|Kristina||Sprint update and Round Table|
|December 20, 2021|Kristina|Paige|Linked Data FYI and Islandora Defaults|


