## Islandora Metadata Interest Group Agenda
### Monday, July 9, 2018, [1-2pm EDT](http://www.thetimezoneconverter.com/?t=1%20pm&tz=Toronto&)
### 
---
* Chair: Rosie Le Faive 
* Notetaker: Rachel Tillay
---

#### Join Us!
* Zoom Link: https://zoom.us/j/702515720
  
#### Working Documents:
* Trello: https://trello.com/b/J6ciWrqa/sample-mods-rdf-mapping-tool
* [Principles and Requirements document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/19c58eqejuB3MhY-lS8o8QW0naM_R3GusD23aQ3dwusw/edit?usp=sharing)
---

#### Attending:
* Rosie Le Faive
* Rachel Tillay
* Mike Bolam
* Danny Lamb
* Gabi Gulya
* Robin Naughton

#### Agenda:
##### Welcome and Announcements

* Meeting scheduling:
  * Back to normal
  
* Upcoming [Migration sprint](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!topic/islandora/2fqKSKG5Zjs)  Aug 20-31
  * Active Sprinting is week one of the sprint
  * Involvement of metadata librarians in the planning is also important
  * Librarian consultation is important so that the developers know what they need to do in order to get the software to the goal point
  * By the end of the sprint, the goal is there to be a mapping you can actually play with an see it using the software
  * We don't need to have the complete solution of the mapping
  * Perhaps we can use the basic DC version of the mapping created and reviewed a few months ago?
  * Does the group think we can have the basic mapping prepared for the sprint?

* Review last meeting -- Name

##### Name

* How do we attach name strings to entities?
  * What to do with names that don't have roles? See DLF Aquifer Guidelines [list of public documents](https://uisapp2.iu.edu/confluence-prd/display/iulDLFAquifer/DLF+Aquifer+Public+Metadata+Documents)
  * We can probably use some of the LCSH/LCNAF reconciliation code to reconcile names, even if they don't have URIs in MODS, but they come from a controlled vocabulary.
  * Additional follow-up, MARC Relator Roles can be imported and will be included in CLAW as it is shipped out/we should be able to map the role terms and codes to the URIs
  * Encourage pre-migration to add creator roles if there is no role; otherwise, if there is no role, it will be assigned contributor (best practice of DLF Aquifer Guidelines)
  * owl:sameAs vs. skos:closeMatch and skos:exactMatch
  * rdfs:label will put the string and owl:sameAs to put the URI
  * owl:sameAs seems to be intended to be used to group together multiple URIs for the same person. Will there be a conflict to use it this way, but also as the URI 

##### Return to Complex Mapping for Title
* We will table this until we complete a simple mapping. A complete (or as complete as possible) simple mapping before the Sprint begins August 20th is our goal.

#### Homework
* We will continue discussing owl:sameAs, skos:closeMatch, skos:exactMatch, and other options for mapping names on the list.
* Tillay will copy the data for DCTerms from the [Trello board](https://trello.com/b/J6ciWrqa/mods-rdf-mapping-for-islandora-mig) into the [google sheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1C2Xie7HUDSgRT5v4ldoJvlNdoXz2GHAPvL3PE3TOKW8/edit#gid=0).
