## Islandora Metadata Interest Group Agenda
### Monday, June 14, 2020, [1-2pm EDT](http://www.thetimezoneconverter.com/?t=1%20pm&tz=Toronto&)

---
* Chair: Rosie LeFaive
* Notetaker: Charlie Tillay

---

#### Join Us!
* Zoom Link: https://zoom.us/j/82790225209

#### Working Documents:
* [CLAW MIG MODS simplified mapping](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/18u2qFJ014IIxlVpM3JXfDEFccwBZcoFsjbBGpvL0jJI/edit#gid=0)
* [Example MODS for CLAW mapping](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1C2Xie7HUDSgRT5v4ldoJvlNdoXz2GHAPvL3PE3TOKW8/edit#gid=1829081124)
* [Draft Recommendations](https://docs.google.com/document/d/15qSO9YcALtYSqd6CUuGx0t8FwUJ5pPwVPz0PA5rU898/edit#heading=h.f9r6knw0rjvu)
* [Feedback on Mapping from ICG, Part 2](https://docs.google.com/document/d/11OpqMMCXM1TFXgsr4yyTQ_cH9DabnD31p7JnuTRQl28/edit?invite=CMWvruEI&ts=5e66437f)
* [NEW - Wants/Needs/Questions Open Document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/12Kpb6826TNPzzMuyPS0sESa9TLnmljQmeioWbaPeEdA/edit)

---

#### Attending:
* Mike Bolam
* Charlie Tillay
* Rosie LeFaive
* Seth Shaw
* Daniel Lamb
* Kristina Spurgin
* Abigail Gulya
* Angelina Spotts
* Paige Morfitt
* Alex K.
* Elisa Naquin
* Christopher H. Day

### Agenda:
* Announcements
* Open Discussion on:
  * Current interesting projects
  * Issues you're struggling with
  * Tools you're experimenting with
  * Other topics as requested

### Notes:
* Announcements
 * We had to use an individual's Slack link as a temporary go-between today. Check the Slack for the link.
* Open Discussion on:
  * Current work includes prep for migration
   * Most of this work has included profiling client metadata. The discussion in this group is leading in a direction of allowing more flexibility in schema. That means that, especially in the context of the current metadata, it's a bit a challenging to map, provide the same functionality, but also have a maintenance-friendly set of fields.
   * Don't want more grandularity (ie. Bibframe), just don't want metadata more lumped together.
   * Creation of multiple templates or profiles within each client's instance or partition within the company's multi-instance may be a solution.
  * Discussion of how many organizations need and use multi-sites and the circumstances in which they're useful.
  * Discussion of increasing workload under COVID-19
   * Part of the load is finding work for student workers or others who usually work with physical materials.
   * Part of the load is administration wanting proof of the progress.
   * Part of the load is that most of us were working on migration and now we're still trying to work on metadata remediation and migration, but remotely, while juggling more projects and more supervision, and while physically disconnected from the other groups that we'd normally collaborate with more efficiently.
  * Discussion of half cataloging/half metadata positions and the complications thereof
   * Basically, they're untenable. Most organizations need at least one full-time metadata position and are in denial, which has become more visible during COVID/quarantine because of the number of people who suddenly need advice on metadata work or leadership on a metadata project.
  * Complications of managing data of groups when other people "own" the data. One recommendation: help them know what fields can get the most bang for the buck with personal attention. Another recommendation: Use spreadsheets or google forms so people not used to metadata can work on clean-up or additions that require human attention. 
 * Other questions:
  * Newspaper question: Where to put special issues that don't have numbers? Answer: Can you sort by date? Follow-up answer: You can sort by date and it doesn't even involve coding.
  * How to handle un-typed names: Create an un-typed names field? (yes, anded by Seth)
  
### Next Meeting:
* July 27, 2020
