## Islandora Metadata Interest Group Agenda
### Monday, November 14, 2016, 1-2pm EST
### 
---
* Chair: Amanda Lehman
* Notetaker: Joseph Nicholson 
* Present: Amanda Lehman, Jennifer Eustis, Aaron Coburn, Chris Stanton, Henry Raine, Lisa McFall, Melissa Anez, Martha Tenney, Matthew Miguez, Sandy Rodriguez, Peter McDonald, Nick Ruest, Stephen (Davison?), Joseph Nicholson, unidentified call-in participants

---

#### How to Join the Meeting  
* Meeting URL: https://uconn-cmr.webex.com/uconn-cmr/j.php?MTID=m2c31587beca52005bdf3c0a3b4607a50
* Audio via Telephone: 1-415-655-0002, code: 649 380 345

---

#### Agenda Items:
* Welcome and introductions
* Announcements  
  * Should the PDF and large image solution pack default MODS XML Form include a dateIssued element?
  * Bryan Brown from the Islandora Institutional Repository Interest Group to talk about scholarly metadata
* Proposal: A basic CLAW Metadata Roadmap document and a metadata issues wish list has been created [Issues](https://github.com/islandora-interest-groups/Islandora-Metadata-Interest-Group/issues/30)
* The discussion will be led by Chris Stanton and Diego Pino on their new spreadsheet ingest tool for Islandora
* Subgroups updates
* Round table

#### Notes:

* Islandora Multi-Importer links (from CS, will add more ASAP!)
  * Code available: https://github.com/mnylc/islandora_multi_importer
  * Sample Twig templates: https://github.com/mnylc/dcmny/tree/master/twig
  * Twig documentation: http://twig.sensiolabs.org/documentation
  
  
Notes:

•	There is some uncertainty about whether dateIssued is the proper date element to use in the MODS XML default form for the PDF and large image solution pack. A dateIssued date is needed in order to make the browse function work properly for newspapers, but some repositories have used an inconsistent mixture of dates in dateIssued and dateCreated elements. It was suggested that a SOLR date field may be needed to reconcile dates from disparate elements and sort over the entire date field.

•	Matthew Miguez asked about the best way to evaluate ontologies to use in the IR module. Aaron Coburn suggested that institutions use ontologies from publishers whom they trust; if these aren’t available, ontologies published by WC3 (e.g. SKOS, PROV) are the most reliable, while Dublin Core and FOAF occupy a subsidiary tier in terms of reliability and usefulness. Others tend to be very domain-specific (e.g., Darwin Core, used for biological materials) and are thus not broadly useful, though within specific subject fields they may be the only game in town.

•	Steve asked whether a decision tree exists for predicates from the Hydra community. Amanda said that she isn’t aware of one and suggested that it might be useful to post the issue to chat and add it to the agenda items for CLAW discussions. A group member later posted a predicate decision tree in chat.

•	Chris Stanton from Digital Culture of Metropolitan New York (DCMY) demonstrated the spreadsheet metadata ingestion tool that he and his colleague Diego have developed to make the process of submitting metadata and objects easier for repository partners. The tool allows users who may not be comfortable or proficient with the Open Refine templating process that many institutions use for converting spreadsheet metadata to MODS to load spreadsheet metadata directly into Islandora along with objects. 

How the tool works: Users logged in as an administrator upload a CSV or TSV file into the tool. Site administrators then use Twig, a templating engine for PHP, to map metadata in spreadsheet columns to specific MODS metadata elements, a process that mirrors the templating function in Open Refine. (Twig can also perform Open Refine-like processes like splitting cells with multiple values and trimming whitespaces.) The tool permits partners to ingest metadata for objects with several different content models (e.g. basic images, large images, compound objects, book objects) simultaneously in the same spreadsheet. It also has a functionality that allows users to preview submitted metadata values before the final ingest command is executed. 

Once the metadata has been successfully mapped and finalized, a CMODEL mapping tool is used to assign the appropriate content models for the objects and associated metadata. Uploading a batch set of object files is the last step. Stanton said DCMY has used the tool to ingest several substantial base collections, though he noted that more work needs to be done to make the tool more user-friendly for partners. Documentation is also being prepared.     

Question: How does the tool handle metadata that contains multiple attributes?
Stanton: He hasn’t encountered this type of collection yet, but it might be a tricky issue. At present the tool works best for collections with relatively straightforward metadata.

Question: Does the tool have baked-in namespace handling, so that the appropriate aggregator namespace gets assigned to metadata submitted by different partners?
Stanton: This will be addressed fairly soon.

Question: Have you prepared a basic workflow for partners for preparing metadata and object files for batch ingest?
Stanton: A basic metadata workflow document has been prepared. So far the workflow hasn’t yet eliminated the need for Open Refine, which Stanton still occasionally relies on to clean up metadata before running it through the tool’s importer.

•	Discussion turned to the survey that Matthew Miguez and others at Florida State sent to Islandora institutions about their metadata practices. Though he and his colleagues haven’t yet finished analyzing the survey results, Miguez reported that the survey responses indicate fairly widespread frustration with the XML forms function. Additionally, the survey suggests that while institutions seem to be adhering to a fairly uniform procedure for creating metadata (entering metadata in spreadsheet, converting it to MODS in Open Refine), they are taking varying approaches when it comes to processing the metadata after the Open Refine step. Sharing XSLTs and Ruby scripts could help institutions handle this part of the work more smoothly and efficiently.

•	Lehman noted that as XML forms will almost certainly not be used in Islandora 2, attempts to improve this function may not be the best use of time and energy just now. A more immediate and pressing concern is preparing our metadata for the linked data environment of Islandora 2—i.e. prepping it for conversion to RDF.

In response to a question from Lehman about the best way to start down that path, Aaron Coburn suggested that we need to begin seriously rethinking how we structure our metadata. Moving metadata from the extremely hierarchical MODS standard to RDF will be simpler if we keep our records as flat and simple as possible. Refinements and embellishments like the use of displayLabel, which Coburn and his colleagues at Amherst have eliminated, will complicate the conversion process. Lehman said that the group will need to strategize on this and other topics to ensure that the transition to Islandora 2 is as painless as possible.   
