## Islandora Metadata Interest Group Agenda
### Monday, May 14, 2018, [1-2pm EDT](http://www.thetimezoneconverter.com/?t=1%20pm&tz=Toronto&)
### 
---
* Chair: Mike Bolam 
* Notetaker: Rosie Le Faive
---

#### Join Us!
* This meeting willbe on Zoom! https://zoom.us/j/181240170
  
#### Working Documents:
* Trello: https://trello.com/b/J6ciWrqa/sample-mods-rdf-mapping-tool
* [Principles and Requirements document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/19c58eqejuB3MhY-lS8o8QW0naM_R3GusD23aQ3dwusw/edit?usp=sharing)
---

#### Attending:

* Mark Jordan
* Mike Bolam
* Bethany Seeger
* Danny Lamb
* Gabi G.
* J Radding
* Paige Morfitt
* Rachel Tillay
* Rachel Naughton
* Rosie Le Faive


#### Agenda:
##### Welcome and Announcements

* Zoom or IRC? Decided on Zoom for chat. Mark and/or the Chair will save the transcript at the end of the meeting
* Upcoming meetings during holidays: (reminder messages will be sent out the Fridays before)
  * May 28 cancelled for the holiday
  * June 25 cancelled for ALA (several members attending)
##### Recap last meeting's decisions on Title
* We will have a simple mapping to a literal in dcterms:title. Last meeting we proposed mapping only titleInfo/title for this.
  * This would mean losing not just granularity, but losing all information in other subelements (nonSort, subtitle, partName, partNumber). 
  * This aspect was reconsidered, and we decided we preferred a concatenation approach for the simple title map.
   * Xpath 2.0, or XSLT, or some other more complicated method may be required to add the proper punctuation, but this will be sorted out later.
* For the simple mapping, 
  * <titleInfo> elements without type will be mapped to dc:title. All subelements will be concatenated with punctuation, if possible.
  * <titleInfo type="translated"> elements will be mapped, with subelement concatenation, to dc:title but with a language tag.
  * <titleInfo type="alternative">, <titleInfo type="uniform">, and <titleInfo type="abbreviated"> will be mapped, with subelement concatenation, to dcterms:alternative. 
  * It was not discussed what to do with titleInfo elements that have a type, which is not listed here.
* The complex mapping was not discussed.

* We discussed the fact that this simple mapping is the "ingest mapping" or the "migration mapping" and *not* necessarily any on-the-fly mapping that we might create from richer, granular, metadata to an XML format for export (such as for OAI or other harvesting needs).
  
##### Examine Samvera's choices ... for Name? https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ffCyIirUkESLefBehafbacsLb_Rq7KJbTxxeoQCyLpw/edit#

* USE CASE: Role term information that is consistently wrong. For example, a collection of photographs, where roleTerm "author" is used though it is displayed (in templates) as "Photographer"
  * There is a general use case for needing to profile/audit, and then needing tools to clean, metadata. 
  * Mark Jordan has a module: https://github.com/mjordan/cdminspect for inspecting contentDM content for a similar purpose
  * Mark also pointed to https://github.com/jyobb/islandora_metadata_analyzer

* Started discussing name.
  * We discussed minting objects, and not using any string options.
  * We re-mentioned the idea of minting now, and reconciling (to external authorities) later.
  * As Bethany succinctly put it, you could use a string, but you'd defeat the purpose of using Linked Data. 

#### For next time (4 weeks): 
* more names!
 
