## Islandora Metadata Interest Group Agenda
### Monday, January 22, 2018, [1-2pm EST](http://www.thetimezoneconverter.com/?t=1%20pm&tz=Toronto&)
### 
---
* Announcements: Mike Bolam
* Chair: Rachel Tillay
* Notetaker: Rosie Le Faive 
---

#### Join Us!
This meeting is a hybrid teleconference and IRC chat. Anyone is welcome to join. Here is the info:
* Time: 1:00pm Eastern Daylight Time US (UTC-4)
* Dial-in Number: (641) 715-3570
  * Participant Code: 304589#
  * International numbers: [Conference Call Information](https://github.com/Islandora-CLAW/CLAW/wiki/Conference-Call-Information)
  * Web Access: https://www.freeconferencecallhd.com/wp-content/themes/responsive/flashphone/flash-phone.php
* IRC:
  * Join the #islandora chat room via [Freenode Web IRC](http://webchat.freenode.net/) (enter a unique nick)
  * Or point your IRC client to #islandora on irc.freenode.net
  
#### Working Documents:
* Trello: https://trello.com/b/J6ciWrqa/sample-mods-rdf-mapping-tool
---

#### Attending:

#### Agenda:
* Welcome
* General business
* Review Notes from [last MIG meeting](https://github.com/islandora-interest-groups/Islandora-Metadata-Interest-Group/blob/master/Meetings/2018_01_08.md)
* Continue conversation around Bibframe as a potential model. 

#### Notes and Questions:
**Attendees**:
* Mike Bolam, Pittsburgh
* Gabi Gulya, Pittsburgh
* Lisa McFall, Hamilton College
* Rosie Le Faive, UPEI
* Rachel Tillay *chair*
* Robin Naughton, NYAM
* Christine Bone, Manitoba

Notes: We collaborated on creating a "mapping" (example, really) between a MODS record with multiple, granular title elements, and Bibframe.

```xml
<mods>
    <titleInfo>
        <nonSort>The</nonSort>
        <title>big cheese</title>
        <subtitle>a mousey story</subtitle>
        <partNumber>Book 2</partNumber>
        <partName>Stinky cheese</partName>
    </titleInfo>
    <titleInfo type=”alternative”>
        <title>Big Cheese 2</title>
        <subtitle>Stinky cheese</subtitle>
    </titleInfo>
</mods>

```

```turtle

bf:title [ a bf:Title ; 
	Rdfs:label "The big cheese: a mousey story, Book 2" ;
	bflc:titleSortKey "Big cheese" ;
	bf:mainTitle "The Big cheese" ;
	bf:subTitle "a mousey story" ;
	bf:partNumber "Book 2" ;
	bf:partName "Stinky cheese"; ]
bf:title [ a bf:VariantTitle ;
           bf:mainTitle "Big Cheese 2" ;
	bf:subTitle "Stinky cheese" ;
bf:variantType "alternative" ; ]

```
#### Discussion

It's nice that we have a straightforward, formatted title (the rdfs:label) but also can access the title and subtitle and partnumber in separate fields, so that if we want to configure our display nicely, we can do that. However, we'd have to keep the hierarchical structure in order for this to work (i.e. to not mix up sub-elements like subtitles from different bf:title if, like above, there are multiple of repeatable fields.

The form would be very complicated! We looked at the editor available (albeit for BF 1.0) here:  http://bibframe.org/tools/editor/# The consensus was that we wanted both a super granular form for metadata professionals (such as that one), and the ability to have a "easy" form with fewer fields for volunteers or quick adding/editing.

We are a little worried about validation. Since the information is so duplicated in Bibframe, could we have a "validator" to point out when fields that should be aligned/similar/derived (e.g. the titleSortKey vs the mainTitle) are edited and thereby fall out of sync? Especially if someone is using a simple form and does not have permission to edit the fields that would need to be updated.

We are okay if there's no automagic updating to link "dependent" fields (for instance, the rdfs:label as a live composition of the title, subtitle, part name and number). We can rely on humans to update, even if this means entering/editing duplicate data.

#### For next time

Have a think on how we'd use bibframe's vocab for authors/creators. 
