## Islandora Metadata Interest Group Agenda
### Monday, August 20, 2018, [1-2pm EDT](http://www.thetimezoneconverter.com/?t=1%20pm&tz=Toronto&)
###
---
* Chair:  Rosie LeFaive
* Notetaker: Rachel Tillay
---

#### Join Us!
* Zoom Link: https://zoom.us/j/702515720

#### Working Documents:
* Trello: https://trello.com/b/J6ciWrqa/sample-mods-rdf-mapping-tool
* [Principles and Requirements document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/19c58eqejuB3MhY-lS8o8QW0naM_R3GusD23aQ3dwusw/edit?usp=sharing)
---

#### Attending:
* Rosie LeFaive
* Rachel Tillay
* Mike Bolam
* Bethany Seeger
* Cara Key
* Danny Lamb
* Gabi
* Jennifer Radding
* Robin Naughton
* Paige
* Ann McShane
* Seth Shaw

#### Agenda and Notes:
* Discuss [Requests for Sprint Goals from MIG to Sprint Team](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ZBzkGJ-t-c224S9aHRUZmTKHJzbPGJbmzBrzF2h66Y8)
    * Including a copy of the MODS document as an attached datastream after migration was agreed to as part of the goals for CLAW (for archives and for revision of data post-migration)
    * Setting up your own reconciliation service:
    1. It should be possible to get a reconciliation going, according to this: https://github.com/codeforkjeff/conciliator
    2. Download and run command? How does it work?
    3. We may need to request some dev-side help to help us understand or run this, so we're going to create a ticket for it.
    * Review of [mapping spreadsheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/18u2qFJ014IIxlVpM3JXfDEFccwBZcoFsjbBGpvL0jJI/edit#gid=0) developed for sprint
    1. We have recommendations of which vocabulary to use for relator terms and some other terms in the spreadsheet, but the sprint is exploring creating compound fields and lists for the vocabulary that will be editable/extendable.
    2. Compound field (Agent) with entity reference (Linked agent) and a field type (Relationship designator). The web form will allow you to type in a string. If that string is already assigned a URI, it will automatically be assigned. If it isn't, you will need to create a new Drupal node for that person. Linked agent (URI) refers to the URI in RDF, authorized label in the GUI, and node in Drupal. Relationship designator refers to the role that the agent provided in relation to the work. Relationship designator is generally pulled from a controlled vocabulary list such as RDA Appendix I or MARC Relator terms.
    * Please edit terms in the mapping spreadsheet so that we can 
* xml2csv tool created by Cara Key, Metadata Librarian at LSU
* How to participate in CLAW Sprint:August 20-31st
     * Planning meeting was August 17th at 12pm Central/1pm Eastern time
     * Kick-off meeting was August 20th at 10am Central/11am Eastern time
     * Wrap-up meeting planned for August 31st, time TBD
* CLAW Islandora Tutorial (how to get CLAW running)
     * Step-by-step Instructions: https://github.com/Islandora-Devops/claw-playbook
     * Actual step-by-step for Newbies
     1. Git clone the above box
     2. Have pre-requisites including Ansible, Vagrant, and Virtual Box
     3. It should run cleanly. If you encounter errors, you can ask the IRC channel for help or email the Google group about your problems. The Islandora community wants as many testers as possible, so they're happy to help!
     * Cautionary tales/errors encountered and solutions:
     If you're on a Windows machine, Danny mentioned that ansible is a pain, so you have to create a virtual machine in which you create the CLAW virtual machine.
     
#### Homework:
* Participate in CLAW Migration Sprint to the best of your ability!
     * Danny will create a sandbox we can use to collaborate on field labels that may be able to scooped.
     * The sandbox will also be our place to experiment with and possibly complete the mapping.
     * Spin up CLAW on your computer
     * Spin up OpenRefine on your computer
     * Discuss your experiences on thread: 
* Wednesday 12pm central meeting to discuss XML to CSV tool
* No meeting on 9/3
* Next meeting on 9/17 will cover a Sprint Recap and mapping of Origin Info
