## Islandora Metadata Interest Group Agenda
### Monday, June 11, 2018, [1-2pm EDT](http://www.thetimezoneconverter.com/?t=1%20pm&tz=Toronto&)
### 
---
* Chair: Rachel Tillay 
* Notetaker: Rosie Le Faive
---

#### Join Us!
* Zoom Link: https://zoom.us/j/702515720
  
#### Working Documents:
* Trello: https://trello.com/b/J6ciWrqa/sample-mods-rdf-mapping-tool
* [Principles and Requirements document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/19c58eqejuB3MhY-lS8o8QW0naM_R3GusD23aQ3dwusw/edit?usp=sharing)
---

#### Attending:
(attendance was not taken, Rosie forgot to do that before closing Zoom)


#### Agenda:
##### Welcome and Announcements

* Upcoming scheduling:
  * June 25 cancelled for ALA/iCamp (several members attending)
  
##### Complex Mapping for Title

* We didn't address this, instead we went for name (see below).

##### Name

* We often have names with, or without, URIs.
* As for roles, most common roles are from the MODSRELATOR or another ontology. If they have a URI, and are properties (like modsrelator) we can use them directly in RDF.
* There's some interest in being able to customize or control how these map on a "collection" level, e.g. for a specific set of photographs, the photographer is listed with role "Creator" but we want to map that to "Photographer" in this case. 
* If we think of migrations in "chunks" - a collection, or a part of a repository, at a time - then we can accommodate the idiosyncracies a lot better within those boundaries. Not necessarily one Islandora Collection at a time (though it may be) would allow some of these choices to be configurable.
* When mapping names it would be easier/desirable to mint entities even when external URIs are known. e.g. Emily Dickinson as an author - we'd create a Drupal Node for this person then use a sameAs link to point to LOC (or VIAF or anywhere else). 
* Having some level of human interaction is desired - what values are present, what objects get minted? It would easier to review these pre-ingest, though there will need to be a way to reconcile two minted drupal entities.


#### What's on the slate for next time (4 weeks): 

 * More discussion of names, and how to attach name strings to entites.
