## Islandora Metadata Interest Group Agenda
### Monday, December 2, 2019 [1-2pm EDT](http://www.thetimezoneconverter.com/?t=1%20pm&tz=Toronto&)

---
* Chair: Charlie Tillay
* Notetaker: Mike Bolam
---

#### Join Us!
* Zoom Link: https://zoom.us/j/702515720

#### Working Documents:
* [CLAW MIG MODS simplified mapping](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/18u2qFJ014IIxlVpM3JXfDEFccwBZcoFsjbBGpvL0jJI/edit#gid=0)
* [Example MODS for CLAW mapping](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1C2Xie7HUDSgRT5v4ldoJvlNdoXz2GHAPvL3PE3TOKW8/edit#gid=1829081124)
* [Draft Recommendations](https://docs.google.com/document/d/15qSO9YcALtYSqd6CUuGx0t8FwUJ5pPwVPz0PA5rU898/edit#heading=h.f9r6knw0rjvu)
---

#### Attending:
* Mike Bolam
* Charlie Tillay
* Rosie LeFaive
* Angelina Spotts
* Melissa Anez
* Alex Kent
* Derek Merleaux
* Paige Morfitt
* Rod
* Sarah Lippincott
* Simon HM
* Danny Lamb
* Seth Shaw
* Meredith Hale
* Michelle Janowiecki


### Agenda:
* Announcements
  * Islandora Slack has a Metadata Channel! - Join - https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSewDLgTqnOpvMAj-dcZOKh0lNTgoogcaDaAyxYevanM1Yt9fA/viewform?usp=sf_link
* Review Participants.md. Is your name on it?
* Open Pull Request: https://github.com/Islandora/controlled_access_terms/pull/35
  
  
### Minutes:
* Review Participants.md. Is your name on it?
  * Added outstanding pull requests. Also added a couple names during the meeting.
  * If you are not on the list and would like to be on the list, please put in a pull request or contact one of the co-conveners via email, slack, etc. 
* Open Pull Request related to MIG work: 
  * **Adding new Vocabularies/Taxonomies as per Metadata Interest Group mappings:** https://github.com/Islandora/controlled_access_terms/pull/35
  * Request for questions/vocabulary clarifications.
  * Rosie provided an overview of how Controlled Access Terms work with Islandora
    * Controlled Access Terms is a module for Drupal - it could be used with other implementations (not Islandora specific)
    * Sets up structure that you can throw terms into - 
    * This PR is proposing adding Genre, Form, Language, Country
    * Are they locked down? Not sure - once it is set up, it is "yours to play with" as an administrator.
    * Defined in a module that, at some point in it's live, will be updated.
  * Are you going to pre-poplate it? Are you going to pre-populate from a specific vocab?
  * Genre, Form, and Language seem pretty straight forward. Country/Location is a bit more challenging/contentious
    * For example, we may or may not care about MARC Country Codes and/or LC NAF Geographic Terms and/or GeoNames and/or etc. depending on our local data and where the data is going to reside.
  * Discussed a variety of options - 
  * Seth has a suggestion to make this feature as a submodule - Admin would have to decide to add it or not.
    * This seems workable to the group
    * Defaults are the generic things (names of corporate bodies, topical headings, geographic headings, etc.)
    * Sub-modules are more specific to a metadata source
  * Danny suggests that as long as things can interoperate - we'll go okay.
    * Islandora as a framework should let you do what you need to do at your institution
  * Seth suggests that it's about finding the sensible defaults
  * Charlie brought up a major challenge around geographic subjects : Even in LC, some are in NAF and some are SC
  * Implications for building your own? You are on your own - if there are updates to Islandora Defaults, not by default getting updated in your build.
  
**Decision** - MARC Country Codes - Should be implemented as a sub-module

**Decision** - Other implementation in the PR are okay to procede "as is" as part of the Islandora Defaults

**To Do** - Summarize the requests/recommendations/features in the PR - Find all of recommendations and make sure they are compiled.

### Next Meeting:
Monday, December 16, 2019

* What is a Metadata Application Profile (MAP)?
  * Discussion: Can we/Should we develop a "recommended" or "preferred" or "default" MAP for Islandora 8?
  * Is this something that rises above "MIG recommends the following MAP"?
