## Islandora Metadata Interest Group Agenda
### Monday, October 5, 2020, [1-2pm EDT](http://www.thetimezoneconverter.com/?t=1%20pm&tz=Toronto&)

---
* Chair: Charlie Tillay
* Notetaker: Mike Bolam

---

#### Join Us!
* Zoom Link: https://zoom.us/j/82790225209

#### Working Documents:
* [CLAW MIG MODS simplified mapping](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/18u2qFJ014IIxlVpM3JXfDEFccwBZcoFsjbBGpvL0jJI/edit#gid=0)
* [Example MODS for CLAW mapping](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1C2Xie7HUDSgRT5v4ldoJvlNdoXz2GHAPvL3PE3TOKW8/edit#gid=1829081124)
* [Draft Recommendations](https://docs.google.com/document/d/15qSO9YcALtYSqd6CUuGx0t8FwUJ5pPwVPz0PA5rU898/edit#heading=h.f9r6knw0rjvu)
* [Feedback on Mapping from ICG, Part 2](https://docs.google.com/document/d/11OpqMMCXM1TFXgsr4yyTQ_cH9DabnD31p7JnuTRQl28/edit?invite=CMWvruEI&ts=5e66437f)
* [Wants/Needs/Questions Open Document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/12Kpb6826TNPzzMuyPS0sESa9TLnmljQmeioWbaPeEdA/edit)

---

#### Attending:
* Mike Bolam
* Charlie Tillay
* Rosie LeFaive
* Melissa Anez
* Kristina Spurgin
* Meredith
* Alex K.
* Gabi Gulya
* Seth Shaw
* Mandy Ryan
* Paige Morfitt
* Elisa Naquin
* Lisa McFall
* Danny Lamb

### Agenda:
* Announcements
  * Master/Main migration - This is going to happen after the meeting. Update bookmarks just in case.
  * Co-Convener Search - We will announce two new co-conveners! 
    * Eventually, we will need a third, so start thinking about it, but no rush. :)
* Technical Metadata 
  * What is Technical Metadata?
  * Questions
    1. One type of technical metadata you create or use
    1. Where you store it and why?
    1. The advantages and disadvantages of that method.
  * Discussion
    * Do we want technical metadata stored in Islandora in Drupal triples? 
    * If so, what functionality we would need?
  
### Notes:

* Technical Metadata
  * What is Technical Metadata?
    * [Mike's notes on Technical Metadata](https://github.com/islandora-interest-groups/Islandora-Metadata-Interest-Group/blob/main/resources/TechMetadata.md)
 * Questions
   * One type of technical metadata you create or use
     * Institution 1: Validation and well formedness checks - find out why something is working.
     * Institution 2: Stripping from MODS - kind of a mixed bag.
     * Institution 3: We've used the used FITS metadata generated by the DAMS exactly once, to check which compression algorithm was used for a particular image file. We have a separate digital preservation workflow/system where we capture the technical metadata outside of the DAMS.
     * Institution 4: In the past, some technical metadata embedded in file - may even include information about who created the file and other technical or descriptive metadata. 
   * Where you store it and why?
     * Institution 1: FITS exported as FITS as part of the standard ingest.
     * Institution 2: We removed legacy technical metadata, but also have some living in the MODS because it doesn't look like the traditional technical metadata.
     * Institution 3: We do add some technical metadata to the Notes field to keep track of who has been working on objects.
     * Institution 4: Entered via Adobe Bridge. Mix of created and automated metadata
   * The advantages and disadvantages of that method.
     * Institution 4: The embedded had advantages because it was easy to track. It lived with the file. Disadvantage - they stopped doing that process over time, as they moved forward.
 * Discussion
   * Do we want technical metadata stored in Islandora in Drupal triples? 
   * If so, what functionality we would need?
   * Differentiating Types of Technical Metadata
     * Things the file can report/automated generated (most traditional tech md) vs. things that a human has to enter (e.g. who made the file)
     * Places where auto-generated vs human generated cross over
       * need to be able to query over both without having direct access to Solr (i.e. what files were digitized using XYZ scanner (machine derived) by Person A (manually entered)
       * would like to query for valid and well formed files (machine derived) in a given collection (human organized)
   * FITS is currently set up for Islandora 8. Upload file, you get a FITS file datastream. But we may be putting it in a place that is non-intuitive.
   * Split off mentionong of other standards:
     * CIDOC - CRM
       * page 4, here, for the ‘digitization and processing model’: http://www.cidoc-crm.org/crmdig/sites/default/files/CRMdig-TAPP11.pdf
     * PREMIS 
       * Might offer some options for storing some of these. Problems with Premis move to RDF and Premis as a Schema vs Premis as a Data Dictionary.

### Next Meeting:
* October 19, 2020
* Topics - More discussion around Technical Metadata - 
  * Homework: Think through these questions:
    * One type of technical metadata you create or use
    * Where you store it and why?
    * The advantages and disadvantages of that method
    * What are the ramifications of these answers for what you want out of Islandora's storage and functionality?
    * ie. We're trying to figure out the boundaries of the "technical metadata" problem before we start trying to "solve" the problem.
