## Islandora Metadata Interest Group Agenda
### Monday, February 24, 2020, [1-2pm EDT](http://www.thetimezoneconverter.com/?t=1%20pm&tz=Toronto&)

---
* Chair: Mike Bolam
* Notetaker: Rosie Le Faive
---

#### Join Us!
* Zoom Link: https://zoom.us/j/702515720

#### Working Documents:
* [CLAW MIG MODS simplified mapping](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/18u2qFJ014IIxlVpM3JXfDEFccwBZcoFsjbBGpvL0jJI/edit#gid=0)
* [Example MODS for CLAW mapping](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1C2Xie7HUDSgRT5v4ldoJvlNdoXz2GHAPvL3PE3TOKW8/edit#gid=1829081124)
* [Draft Recommendations](https://docs.google.com/document/d/15qSO9YcALtYSqd6CUuGx0t8FwUJ5pPwVPz0PA5rU898/edit#heading=h.f9r6knw0rjvu)
---

#### Attending:
* Meredith Hale
* Angelina Spotts
* Alex Kent
* Gabi Gulya
* Elisa Naquin
* Jonathan Kiritharan
* Bridger Dyson-Smith
* Lisa McFall
* Derek Merleaux


### Agenda:
* Announcements
* Discussion: Feedback on Mapping 
* MODS->RDF Retrospective

### Minutes:

* Feedback on mapping from ICG postponed to next week
* Tillay's feedback on mapping centered around their MODS not being in the desired format, so not mapping in properly. An example was subjects, which may include multiple sub-elements under each `<subject>` tag meant to be read together (e.g. such as a composed LCSH heading). Maybe they were more sensible in their original DC?
* In reply: Procedurally, it's possible to migrate some information about your objects through one path (such as the 7.x migrate module) and other information about the same objects through a different path (e.g. if you have a CSV of subjects or names) in a way that you can add the information to your existing Drupal 8 objects. So some info like title could be mapped directly, then subjects could go through a spreadsheet so that you can clean them up first.
* Open question: How _will_ we model subjects?
* Are your MODS records messy? (generally, yes).
* Open question: What will the "migration" and "non-migration" profiles be? Would it be worth "just using DC"? The DC terms (even DC elements) provide a nice basic metadata profile. Should we ship with so simple a "default"? Maybe...
* We also need to be able to export something in XML, either DC or MODS, for purposes like OAI-PMH. Also, it's scary to create a "bag" of a node when important information is in other (nodes or taxonomy term) places in Drupal. The Drupal field structure doesn't make sense outside of Drupal - what if we created an XML serialization of our nodes, that we could use for OAI-PMH, bagit, and other places we needed an XML instead of LD description? (Having your XML and eating it too)

* Next meeting, we'll discuss more hands-on feedback about using the mapping for migration of objects from 7x
      
### Next Meeting:
March 9, 2020
