## Islandora Metadata Interest Group Agenda
### Monday, June 14, 2020, [1-2pm EDT](http://www.thetimezoneconverter.com/?t=1%20pm&tz=Toronto&)

---
* Chair: Charlie Tillay
* Notetaker: Mike Bolam
---

#### Join Us!
* Zoom Link: https://zoom.us/j/82790225209

#### Working Documents:
* [CLAW MIG MODS simplified mapping](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/18u2qFJ014IIxlVpM3JXfDEFccwBZcoFsjbBGpvL0jJI/edit#gid=0)
* [Example MODS for CLAW mapping](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1C2Xie7HUDSgRT5v4ldoJvlNdoXz2GHAPvL3PE3TOKW8/edit#gid=1829081124)
* [Draft Recommendations](https://docs.google.com/document/d/15qSO9YcALtYSqd6CUuGx0t8FwUJ5pPwVPz0PA5rU898/edit#heading=h.f9r6knw0rjvu)
* [Feedback on Mapping from ICG, Part 2](https://docs.google.com/document/d/11OpqMMCXM1TFXgsr4yyTQ_cH9DabnD31p7JnuTRQl28/edit?invite=CMWvruEI&ts=5e66437f)
* [NEW - Wants/Needs/Questions Open Document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/12Kpb6826TNPzzMuyPS0sESa9TLnmljQmeioWbaPeEdA/edit)

---

#### Attending:
* Mike Bolam
* Charlie Tillay
* Rosie LeFaive
* Danny Lamb
* Melissa Anez
* Johnanna Radding
* Elisa Naquin
* Kate Gerrity
* Kristina Spurgin
* Lisa McFall
* Michelle Janowiecki
* Paige Morfitt
* Seth Shaw
* Martha Tenney

### Agenda:
* Announcements
* Islandora Online - Metadata Forum? Topics?
* Metadata Sprint - questions, problems, needs/wants
* What do we need re. "consistency" and/vs "flexibility"?

### Notes:
* No announcements
* Islandora Online:
  * Day dedicated to metadata - July 28th, with a "West Coast Friendly Time Slot"
  * A handful of sessions selected by Melissa and Danny related to metadata. Standard presentations.
  * Opening Session - Metadata Profiles - Panel of people: Greenfield, Migration, Consortium. 
  * Closing Session - Diversity in Metadata. Panel from the community/outside the community. About fixing issues in our metadata that we might now be aware of, based on our experiences. 
* Metadata Sprint
  * Co-conveners - felt like we couldn't pull something together for the tech call. 
  * Questions:
    * Example case: Not sure how this fits into the sprint exactly, but we're making a lot of spreadsheets for a remediation project in 7. Is that something we could reuse in a migration (using the CSV load, for example)?
    * Example case: What do we get from Solr versus what we get from MODS versus what we get from CSV.
    * What is good from Migrate 7x? What is missing? What about using Migrate 7x as a baseline, then using "update" scripts? Make a robust second step to pull data from CSV or MODS. 
    * If you want to store a record, you can't get away from the database. You can save a record, but you have to template it out if you want to do anything with it. If there is a standard template, this is pretty straightforward. 
    * Best reason for exported MODS - Drupal as the only source of metadata, concerns about loss of connection between elements, and therefore losing the "record" for the object.
    * Templating = it is the thing that gets you from the profile to the metadata.
    * Some things already exist - Like a TWIG template that will make MODS to put MODS into your OAI-PMH stream.
    * Do we need a template for every profile? If you want the record, then yes. If you are okay with generating on the fly, then you don't need a template.
    * Three things we need to have? A way to pull from an Xpath, Fields to RDF mapping, Fields to arbitrary file. 
    * If the record is just an artificiality, what is the point? Solely for export and preservation purposes? We aren't able to manipulate the record. 
    * Can we even have a "MIG Recommended" mapping?
  * Step 1:
    * Go to /something/something to see a view of ______ (be it MODS, MADS, DC, etc.)
  * Step 2:
    * Get object metadata as a stored file in the repository.
* What do we need regarding "Consistency" and/vs "Flexibility"
  
### Next Meeting:
* June 29, 2020
