## Islandora Metadata Interest Group Agenda
### Monday, April 20, 2020, [1-2pm EDT](http://www.thetimezoneconverter.com/?t=1%20pm&tz=Toronto&)

---
* Chair: Rosie Le Faive
* Notetaker: Charlie Tillay
---

#### Join Us!
* Zoom Link: https://zoom.us/j/702515720

#### Working Documents:
* [CLAW MIG MODS simplified mapping](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/18u2qFJ014IIxlVpM3JXfDEFccwBZcoFsjbBGpvL0jJI/edit#gid=0)
* [Example MODS for CLAW mapping](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1C2Xie7HUDSgRT5v4ldoJvlNdoXz2GHAPvL3PE3TOKW8/edit#gid=1829081124)
* [Draft Recommendations](https://docs.google.com/document/d/15qSO9YcALtYSqd6CUuGx0t8FwUJ5pPwVPz0PA5rU898/edit#heading=h.f9r6knw0rjvu)

* [NEWLY ADDED - Feedback on Mapping from ICG, Part 2](https://docs.google.com/document/d/11OpqMMCXM1TFXgsr4yyTQ_cH9DabnD31p7JnuTRQl28/edit?invite=CMWvruEI&ts=5e66437f)

---

#### Attending:
* Mike Bolam
* Rosie Le Faive
* Seth Shaw
* Kristina Spurgin
* Melissa Anez
* Jonathan Kiritharan
* Gabi Gulya
* Megan Burdi
* Meredith Hale
* Paige Morfitt
* Alex Kent
* Sarah Lippincott
* Danny Lamb

### Agenda:
* Announcements
* Topics from Slack channel:
  *  "How does crosswalking from MODS to RDF work? Does it have to be an exact hierarchical match MODS (titleInfo/title) or  just the "meat" of the metadata MODS(title)?"
  *  "Is there any particular metadata schema that is recommended for Islandora 8?"
* Simplified MAP for new-to-Islandora 8 metadata/training purposes

### Notes:
* Announcements - none at this time.
* Topics from the Slack Channel
  * "How does crosswalking for MODS to RDF work?"
    * We're all kind of scared by this - especially because a lot of us are expected to be experts. You can get it by the MODS or the Solr, it can be done with the Migrate 7x stuff. You can use XPaths to get the data you want at the level you want. 
    * The Xpath options are limited because of Drupal/PHP stuff i didn't quite catch - There are two options and both have advantages/disadvantages. The more powerful version requires you watch your memory usage.
    * The migrate module: You can do things like merge names, but be careful about how your names are structures. The more "if this then that" the more complicated it gets. Sometimes it makes more sense to make a little module in PHP to handle some of those transforms.
    * As people start migrating in, we should track, develop, and share with the community.
  * "Is the process that you make a CSV from the MODS? Or is there no CSV part?"
    * There could be, if you wanted to, but it isn't necessary. So many options for the paths into the system.
    * New Zealand went in from a CSV - each collection as a CSV. They keep the CSV as the metadata. 
  * "Besides the CSV, what other options for managing? Cleanup?"
    * Still figuring it out - Islandora Workdesk to interact directly with the resources.
    * There is a GUI spreadsheet tool that will be coming some time
  * "It seems like Islandora doesn't care about schema? Why MODS?"
    * MODS because migration from 7 and MODS because it makes metadata people comfortable.
  * "What about blank nodes?"
    * The out of the box uses something from the Drupal community, which assumes blank nodes are not a "thing". It would require development to handle it.
    * You don't need to use blank nodes, if you're willing to model everything in drupal. You'll just end up with a complicated drupal. If you want blank nodes, though, we need to figure it out. Drupal's RDF use-case doesn't come close to our needs, but for now we're leveraging stuff that already exist.
  *
  

  
### Next Meeting:
* May 4, 2020: Training on Yamel?
