## Islandora Metadata Interest Group Agenda
### Monday, August 10, 2020, [1-2pm EDT](http://www.thetimezoneconverter.com/?t=1%20pm&tz=Toronto&)

---
* Chair: Charlie Tillay
* Notetaker: Mike Bolam

---

#### Join Us!
* Zoom Link: https://zoom.us/j/82790225209

#### Working Documents:
* [CLAW MIG MODS simplified mapping](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/18u2qFJ014IIxlVpM3JXfDEFccwBZcoFsjbBGpvL0jJI/edit#gid=0)
* [Example MODS for CLAW mapping](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1C2Xie7HUDSgRT5v4ldoJvlNdoXz2GHAPvL3PE3TOKW8/edit#gid=1829081124)
* [Draft Recommendations](https://docs.google.com/document/d/15qSO9YcALtYSqd6CUuGx0t8FwUJ5pPwVPz0PA5rU898/edit#heading=h.f9r6knw0rjvu)
* [Feedback on Mapping from ICG, Part 2](https://docs.google.com/document/d/11OpqMMCXM1TFXgsr4yyTQ_cH9DabnD31p7JnuTRQl28/edit?invite=CMWvruEI&ts=5e66437f)
* [NEW - Wants/Needs/Questions Open Document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/12Kpb6826TNPzzMuyPS0sESa9TLnmljQmeioWbaPeEdA/edit)

---

#### Attending:
* Mike Bolam
* Charlie Tillay
* Rosie LeFaive
* Alex K
* Melissa Anez
* Danny Lamb
* Kristina Spurgin
* Seth Shaw
* Brendan McCarthy
* Chris
* Lisa McFall
* Meredith Hale
* Eli Zoller
* Paige Morfitt
* Sara Lippincott
* Dara Virks 
* Willow Gillingham
 * Gabi Gulya

### Agenda:
* Announcements
  * [Community Survey for New Features](https://groups.google.com/forum/?utm_medium=email&utm_source=footer#!msg/islandora/SOED-scjAmQ/BGvnB2YOCQAJ) (reply by Aug. 14, 2020).
  
* Open Discussion on:
  * Current interesting projects
  * Issues you're struggling with
  * Tools you're experimenting with
  * Other topics as requested
  * [Islandora Online Metadata (July 28th)](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1DPb3l1G-mwToAcSHZayDTyLLMnGG5uLywc7xYsIO0Tg/edit#heading=h.7g786wltohoz)

### Notes:
* Announcments
  * Some of the co-coordinators are thinking about cycling off. If you are interested in taking a leadership role, get in touch with the current co-coordinators.
* Open Discussion on:
  * Islandora Online Takeaways/Discussion.
    * Rosie - Thanks to everyone who gave talks, worked behind the scenes, and participated in any way!
    * Melissa - Special double thanks to Tillay for their leadership on the closing panel!
  * What is your biggest headache?
    * Tillay is working on Name Authorities - experimenting with name headings in Archives Space, then using those URIs in Islandora 7. Still figuring out what goes in the NACO queue versus the local queue. 
    * UNLV/Seth working to become NACO members - so they can do their own local names. In the meantime they are still using those local names. They are currently using ARKs for local names, but hope to move them into NACO in the future. 
    * Meredith is running into similar issues - not part of NACO, but part of a NACO funnel. It mostly works, but can be really slow. Looking at Wikidata as an alternative. Currently working on Coach names, because they want to capture date ranges for activity. Wikidata is good for that kind of stuff.
    * Darnelle at UNLV is experimenting with Wikidata. So is Tillay.
  * Melissa asked about Records in Context - is anyone else using it? Or even familiar with it?
    * Seth has some familiarity - but it felt like their timeline was too slow, so they moved away from. There is some feeling that it can be overy complex for Linked Data (some hand wringing). They stayed more focus on Schema.org. Not a priority right now.
    * Since the mapping exists because of Jonathan Hunt's work in New Zealand, UNLV might look to reuse some of their work. 
  * Rosie asked about Permanent Identifiers for the Web (https://w3id.org/). Anyone know about it?
    * Most were not familiar with this. 
    * Spun off into conversation about standards vs. best practices for filenames. 
  * If anyone has a really good breakdown for URI vs URL vs URN vs etc. (to share with colleagues) -- send them to Tillay!
  * Any Big Wins?
    * We survived 3 out of 4 Islandora Onlines without any major fails! Number 4 is tomorrow.
    * The Metadata Online was really good - lots of positives.
  * How to work with RightStatements? (Seth)
    * UNLV is changing how they are handling - changing from a Linked Field to a RightsStatement Taxonomy.
    * Could be useful for other URIs too - reuse the set-up for other vocabularies?
    * Hope to configure for taxonomy vocabulary with the field for its use.
  * Rosie - How do you get URIs for Mimetype?
    * See this: https://github.com/perma-id/w3id.org/tree/master/mediatype
      * "The initial reason for doing this is to allow users of the Dublin Core Terms format property to refer to stable, dereferenceable, URIs for Media Types rather than to uses non-resolving URIs or text strings."
    * A bit of a cross-wired conversation spun off comparing mods typeOfResource vs types/formats more generally.

### Next Meeting:
* August 24, 2020
