## Islandora Metadata Interest Group Agenda
Monday, July 13, 2015, 1:00pm - 2:00 pm EST
---
* Chair: Jennifer Eustis
* Notes: Christina Marie Harlow  
---

#### How to Join the Meeting  
* Meeting URL: https://uconn-cmr.webex.com/uconn-cmr/j.php?MTID=medd0c88762755206bb46285977024652
* Meeting ID: 641 079 889
* Video Address: Dial 641079889@uconn-cmr.webex.com
* Audio Connection (via Telephone): +1-415-655-0002 US Toll, use meeting ID number for access

---

#### Agenda Items:

* Introductions
* [Hydra Descriptive Metadata Subgroup - MODS and RDF Descriptive Metadata Subgroup](https://wiki.duraspace.org/display/hydra/MODS+and+RDF+Descriptive+Metadata+Subgroup)
* MIG Wiki (https://github.com/Islandora/Islandora-Metadata-Interest-Group/wiki)
* Subgroups - Tools including XML Forms, Fedora 4/PCDM?, Microdata, Hydra, other?
* Other items brought up by group
 
---

## Notes

### Attendees:
Jennifer Eustis
Amanda Lehman
Nick Ruest
Emily Toner
Kevin Clair
Matthew Miguez
Mike Bolam
Mike Nason
Christina Harlow

### Introductions

### Hydra Descriptive Metadata Group - MODS/RDF Descriptive Metadata Subgroup
 - Hydra has many subgroups
 - They are not necessarily hydra-specific (some more than others)
 - Nick invites folks here to get involved with these - sign up, there is no need to be involved in Hydra to be in these groups
 - As we move to Fedora 4, we can do more things with RDF properties, so the question of MODS/RDF comes up, and Hydra Metadata Group made this a subgroup
 - On 'Linked Data' more broadly, we need further discussions defining Linked Data if we want to publish and consume; we need to identify how we can consume, identify, publish. 
 - Jennifer: the Islandora Metadata group doesnâ€™t need to reproduce Hydra Metadata group here, so she invites interested folks to go sign up for that MODS/RDF or other Hydra Metadata subgroups. We will email group saying such.

### Wiki
- Discussion generally about structure of wiki - has been set up for the Metadata Group, now to get people to start working on and adding content/documentation
- Idea of a wiki page for use cases/user stories brought up - page created, will also apply to each subgroups' work as well
- Led to next discussion point:

### Subgroups/Working Groups
- How to organize working groups? 
- Organize via topic - and if group is interested they can take a topic and break off.
- Subgroups should start now, and via email/wiki/other discussions, subgroups can create their goals/deliverables and report back on these to the next Islandora Metadata Group Meeting

### Decided Subgroups
- Metadata Tools
- Investigate Enhancement Features (including XML Forms, Microdata)
- Fedora 4 (PCDM, Linked Open Data, etc.)
- Hydra Compatibility
- Metadata Best Practices (Profiles, Documentation, Mappings, etc.)
- Authorities

### Announcement of Google hangout
1-2 PM EST, Second Monday of each Month, how to join each meeting will be on the site
