## Islandora Metadata Interest Group Agenda
### Monday, Sept. 14, 2015, 1-2pm EST
### 
---
* Chair: Jennifer Eustis
* Notetaker:  Jennifer Eustis
---

#### Agenda Items:
* Hello and welcome  
For all new people, please get involved with the various subgroups not just with this interest group but also Fedora4 and the new IR interest group. Many of the MIG's subgroups will meet for the 1st time on or after Tues. 9/29. Please check our wiki page [https://github.com/islandora-interest-groups/Islandora-Metadata-Interest-Group/wiki] for more details. Remember to add your name if you'd like to be included on that call.

* Metadata Tools subgroup report  
No report at this time.

* Authorities subgroup report  
No report at this time.

* Fedora4 Metadata subgroup report  
There was a meeting in July to discuss how the different groups are going to work together [https://github.com/islandora-interest-groups/Islandora-Fedora4-Interest-Group/blob/master/meetings/09.md]. The latest notes can be found at [https://github.com/islandora-interest-groups/Islandora-Fedora4-Interest-Group/blob/master/meetings/10.md]. The main site for the Fedora4 Interest group can be found at [https://github.com/islandora-interest-groups/Islandora-Fedora4-Interest-Group].

* Islandora Hydra Compatibility subgroup report  
There is a lot of work being done in this group. The Hydra metadata working group is split into subgropus [https://wiki.duraspace.org/display/hydra/Hydra+Metadata+Working+Group]. The technical and rights working groups are done. The descriptive metadata workgroup is working on mods xml to rdf. There is a meeting on the 21st to figure out a common way to deal with converting mods xml to rdf and which xsl's to use as the standard - use Library of Congress' or Columbia's. 

* Islandora Metadata Best Practices subgroup report  
No report at this time.

* Metadata Tool subgroup report  
No report at this time. 

* Use Cases Users Stories
* Old Business?
* New Business
IR Interest Group (Emily Toner)  
The Institutional Repository is a new interest group [https://github.com/islandora-interest-groups/Islandora-IR-Interest-Group]. There will be opportunity for cross polination and work between this and our group. One idea that is proposed is how to map metatags so that content can be harvested by Google Scholar. There are many use cases that can be created and we would encourage people to create some use cases as well as participate in the IR IG.

iCamp CT, Hartford, CT, 10/20-10/23 2015 [http://islandora.ca/camps/ct2015]  
If you are in the New England area, iCamp is coming to Hartford, CT. Registration is now open. We're also looking for submissions and the t-shirt logo contest.
* Next meeting - Oct. 12, 2015 1-2pm EST
