## Islandora Metadata Interest Group Agenda
### Monday, August 10, 1 PM to 2 PM EST

---

* Chair: Jennifer Eustis
* Notetaker: Christina Harlow 

---

#### How to Join the Meeting

Link: https://uconn-cmr.webex.com/uconn-cmr/j.php?MTID=m29bde3736bdd4a2095bcffc2af7c8076  
Audio (Telephone) Connection: +1-415-655-0002 US Toll  
Access Code/Number: 646 620 782

---

#### Agenda Items:
- Subgroups formations, reporting
  - Fedora4 Metadata Subgroup jointly working with MIG and Fedora 4 IG
  - Preliminary deliverables, timeframe, schedules
- Report from Hydra Metadata Group work
- Metadata Tools
- Metadata Best Practices
- Authorities

---

#### Notes:

_Subgroups formations_

- Mention of creation of subgroups - see the wiki link on the righthand side the MIG Github repo
- Wiki has page for each subgroup along with any progress, decisions made
- More information on the subgroups there,open to all folks to join subgroups
- This (MIG) is the overarching group, work will primarily occur in subgroups
- If you don’t have time now, you can sign up later, or sign up and follow discussions but participate when you're able

_Tools Subgroup_

- had a call to get together some preliminary deliverables, timframe
- looking to make survey to see what Islandora folks use currently
- scope is all of the metadata tools to get metadata ready pre-ingest into Islandora
- as such, not Islandora specific
- hope to have some groupings of available tools, documentations, uses cases, by end of calendar year

_Enhancements_

- looking for component manager for the XML forms
  - Will be done through jira tickets
  - so the group can work with Nick on going through creating jira tickets
- what else already exists in Islandora to work with metadata
- need to meet as subgroup to check scope, meeting times, preliminary goals

_Fedora 4 Interest Group_

- Christina sat in last Fedora 4 Interest Group meeting, Nick put question of how that group will interact with the MIG Fedora 4 Interest group.
- Decided the MIG Fedora 4 Interest Group is joint-appointed for both MIG and F4 IG.
- Nick: the Fedora 4 IG needs more community output, looking for 1 representative from each other group to be there
- There’ll be a lot for others to do moving forward
- Lots of help and collaboration and expertise around how to handle metadata in Fedora4, since we can do this all in RDF, how to work with models such as PCDM
- Easiest thing: move over all metadata as XML/store as binary, or we can take advantage of LDP and make RDF properties on object- this is where the MIG folks can help guide
- Form use cases doc - try to deduplicate, gather core and edge use cases, this is an issue on the MIG github wiki now. Work on this should occur in the linked Google doc

_Report from Hydra Metadata Group work_

- MODS/RDF modeling going on, worth getting involved with as pertains to the last point above

_General Discussion_

Nick shared link for contributing to Islandora doc: http://islandora.ca/resources/contributors

Question: Focus so far seems to be on migration, but also need to know about RDF - how to balance? which to focus on?

Nick: focus on whatever you can. Both communities are learning as they go, and they always need another set of eyes proofreading what they’re doing as they create it. This goes for PCDM too - look at questions on PCDM repo.

Jennifer: They are struggling with balance between working in XML versus RDF, and also the future of XML forms in Islandora makes this uncertain how much time to spend on RDF. U Conn will probably not be going to RDF for a few years - most of islandora community in 5 years may not go beyond that.

Christina: These sorts of comments are always helpful as working group uses cases- so we know to focus work either on practice, this is how I need to migrate, or more soft skills, how do I learn about this thing being discussed - both are valid.

