## Islandora Metadata Interest Group Agenda
### Monday, March 25, 2024, [1-2pm EST](http://www.thetimezoneconverter.com/?t=1%20pm&tz=Toronto&) 
#### Join Us Virtually!
* Zoom Link: https://us02web.zoom.us/j/93923574947?pwd=Z1kyY01veFJNbFZFVUg4Mm1jS1FyZz09

---
## Chair Roster
* Chris Day ü§π‚Äç‚ôÇÔ∏è
* Rosie Le Faive üìù
* Paige Morfitt ü™ë
---

#### Working Documents:
* [Islandora Starter Site Metadata Configuration](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1N37GSwiDl_DSH9-n3BhWLUtjZohOg2udGJJlnZ8BmWQ/edit#gid=0)
* [CLAW MIG MODS simplified mapping](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/18u2qFJ014IIxlVpM3JXfDEFccwBZcoFsjbBGpvL0jJI/edit#gid=0)
* [Example MODS for CLAW mapping](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1C2Xie7HUDSgRT5v4ldoJvlNdoXz2GHAPvL3PE3TOKW8/edit#gid=1829081124)
* [Draft Recommendations](https://docs.google.com/document/d/15qSO9YcALtYSqd6CUuGx0t8FwUJ5pPwVPz0PA5rU898/edit#heading=h.f9r6knw0rjvu)
* [Feedback on Mapping from ICG, Part 2](https://docs.google.com/document/d/11OpqMMCXM1TFXgsr4yyTQ_cH9DabnD31p7JnuTRQl28/edit?invite=CMWvruEI&ts=5e66437f)
* [Wants/Needs/Questions Open Document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/12Kpb6826TNPzzMuyPS0sESa9TLnmljQmeioWbaPeEdA/edit)
* [Working Ideas](https://github.com/islandora-interest-groups/Islandora-Metadata-Interest-Group/blob/main/working_docs/ideas_and_topics.md)
* [MIG I8 Glossary](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1cfPYFVV9qvvz2VjBRdYUN0CB7AyVDuG-GYavQ27DuBk/edit#heading=h.9fr9xw70meix)
* [Field of the Week](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1rk0o_0byzeHrSKst0Feval_QeVZmo2DeIP0Mk3jaaFc/edit)
* [Metadata configuration spreadsheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1N37GSwiDl_DSH9-n3BhWLUtjZohOg2udGJJlnZ8BmWQ/edit?usp=sharing) 
* [MIG Meeting Minutes 2003](https://github.com/islandora-interest-groups/Islandora-Metadata-Interest-Group/tree/main/Meetings/2023)

---

#### Attending:



### Agenda: 
* Announcements
* [standing] Changes to the [Metadata Configuration spreadsheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1N37GSwiDl_DSH9-n3BhWLUtjZohOg2udGJJlnZ8BmWQ/edit#gid=0)
  * [Rosie's suggestions](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1-LOZcmWuAVXrfaBM5K1K4NrBv7g1wJAjMppWryVDCj8/edit#gid=0)
* Contributor field facet demo
* Pulling out Publisher field
* Roundtable : What are we doing metadata project-wise?

### Notes:





  
### Next meeting
April  8, 2024
