  ## Islandora Metadata Interest Group Agenda
### Monday, August 12, 2024, [1-2pm EDT](http://www.thetimezoneconverter.com/?t=1%20pm&tz=Toronto&) 
#### Join Us Virtually!
* Zoom Link: https://us02web.zoom.us/j/93923574947?pwd=Z1kyY01veFJNbFZFVUg4Mm1jS1FyZz09

---
## Chair Roster
* Chris Day 🤿
* Rosie Le Faive 🪑
* Paige Morfitt  📝
---

#### Working Documents:
* [Islandora Starter Site Metadata Configuration](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1N37GSwiDl_DSH9-n3BhWLUtjZohOg2udGJJlnZ8BmWQ/edit#gid=0)
* [Islandora Starter Site Metadata Documentation](https://islandora.github.io/documentation/user-documentation/starter-site-metadata-configuration/)
* [CLAW MIG MODS simplified mapping](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/18u2qFJ014IIxlVpM3JXfDEFccwBZcoFsjbBGpvL0jJI/edit#gid=0)
* [Example MODS for CLAW mapping](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1C2Xie7HUDSgRT5v4ldoJvlNdoXz2GHAPvL3PE3TOKW8/edit#gid=1829081124)
* [Draft Recommendations](https://docs.google.com/document/d/15qSO9YcALtYSqd6CUuGx0t8FwUJ5pPwVPz0PA5rU898/edit#heading=h.f9r6knw0rjvu)
* [Feedback on Mapping from ICG, Part 2](https://docs.google.com/document/d/11OpqMMCXM1TFXgsr4yyTQ_cH9DabnD31p7JnuTRQl28/edit?invite=CMWvruEI&ts=5e66437f)
* [Wants/Needs/Questions Open Document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/12Kpb6826TNPzzMuyPS0sESa9TLnmljQmeioWbaPeEdA/edit)
* [Working Ideas](https://github.com/islandora-interest-groups/Islandora-Metadata-Interest-Group/blob/main/working_docs/ideas_and_topics.md)
* [MIG I8 Glossary](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1cfPYFVV9qvvz2VjBRdYUN0CB7AyVDuG-GYavQ27DuBk/edit#heading=h.9fr9xw70meix)

---

#### Attending:
* Rosie Le Faive
* Paige Morfitt
* Mike Bolam
* Seth Shaw
* Dani Kroon
* Meaghan Elise Cash
* Tyrica Jy'nae Terry Kapral


### Agenda: 
* Announcements
* Changes to Starter Site
* Recap of Pull Requests
* [MIG I8 Glossary](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1cfPYFVV9qvvz2VjBRdYUN0CB7AyVDuG-GYavQ27DuBk/edit#heading=h.9fr9xw70meix)

### Notes:
* Changes to starter site: none that impact metadata. 
* Pull Requests
    * No objection to turning on revision for taxonomies. Rosie put that revised request in today. Reminder, this will turn on revisions as a default. 
    * Equations for title, that is in the cookbook.
    * Cookbook: if anyone wants to add their favorite drouple module feel free to add
    * Title field: Rosie made a PR. It was considered not an easy solution due to sorting or searching. 
    * Formatting was a complex issue: unsure if it would sort by the html (the code), and it's unclear what the search results would be. As for now, we will make html in titles a cookbook item. 
    * If you start a title with a tag, there are issues with sorting -- so if an italicized title starts first, will it sort above all other titles cuz it starts with an angled bracked other than an 'a'
    * Sorting by title: google doesn't let you sort by title. as librarians, we like sorting by title. 
    * How primary is sort by title? for a user not for administration? 
    * Sites Dani has set up (5) and everyone wants a sort by title, creator, date, etc. those are the main/primary ones. https://www.drupal.org/project/views_natural_sort 
    * views natural sort strips out the articles you don't want to sort on
    * Seth: stake holders want it, but unclear if stakeholders use it. Seth is going to do quick test to see if they have any queries. 
    * Two instances searching by title and they were searching within a collection/looking for a specific title. Often sorting by title is the quickest way to receive that title. this is a work-around to a flaw in relevancy ranking if it's not working
      * Mike recalls archives being the ones discussing sorting and faceting. You may be able to do advanced search, but it would be nice to do faceting to search two authors in an AND/OR situation. This would be specifically helpful for people who are unsure who took a photograph, Bill or Stacy -- you have to search by both.
    * When talking about sorting by title, you have to know what the official title is. You have to really know your system to know what the official title is, is it sorting by articles, are articles missing so it sorts better...?
    * summarize: sorting by title is used in unique ways. It's important to look at the reasons to sort alphabetically (are patrons using it, is it for administration organization?), what will(not) be correctly sorted, etc.
* Rosie added to documentation: GUI, Islandora Model

* Description of fields:
    * We want to go through the metadata fields again, and discuss if we want to add descriptions. Sometimes the fields have descriptions, sometimes they could be improved upon. As MIG, we could look at furthering developing those fields to provide additional guidanc
    * Model: 
    * Title: you see this at the top of the page, but not in the metadata section (not out of the box at least). No description (ND)
    * Full title: "if the full title had to be truncated, ass the full title here"
    * Alternative title: maybe adding a list of alternative titles (uniform, translated, abbreviated titles, etc). But for translated title. that's common alternative title. but the Drupal way is to duplicate the node and translate the data. however, that's odd cuz you'd only see the dutch title if you translate the entire thing into dutch. 
    * This translation isn't truly doing what we want -- the Drupal wants to translate everything, however we just want to keep the translated title. 
      * "Such as translation, abbreviated, transliterated, spine title, uniform, etc" 
  * Relationship Type: 
  * Publisher was taken out of this because typically they are not controlled. 
  * We are good with taking out the last paragraph
  * Publisher: ND. free text field
  * Place Published: ND
  * Country of Publication: ND. https://id.loc.gov/vocabulary/countries.html adding countries happens so infrequently. it also doesn't include previous country names. it also says' list of countries, but includes states and provenances.  maybe adding a line saying where these come from, so people know where to look but not hyperlink. this list is what Library of Congress consideres a country now. this doesn't help with historic reference. but if you want to stay in alignment with our catalog, you would use what is on this list.
  *  Maybe it comes in changing the name of place of publication 
* Proposal to change to Place Published facet. 


### Next meeting
September 09, 2024 
