## Islandora Metadata Interest Group Agenda
### Monday, March 27 2023, [1-2pm EST](http://www.thetimezoneconverter.com/?t=1%20pm&tz=Toronto&) 
#### Join Us Virtually!
* Zoom Link: https://us02web.zoom.us/j/93923574947?pwd=Z1kyY01veFJNbFZFVUg4Mm1jS1FyZz09

---
## Chair Roster
* Chris Day 🪑
* Paige Morfitt 📝
* Rosie Le Faive 🧶
---

#### Working Documents:
* [CLAW MIG MODS simplified mapping](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/18u2qFJ014IIxlVpM3JXfDEFccwBZcoFsjbBGpvL0jJI/edit#gid=0)
* [Example MODS for CLAW mapping](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1C2Xie7HUDSgRT5v4ldoJvlNdoXz2GHAPvL3PE3TOKW8/edit#gid=1829081124)
* [Draft Recommendations](https://docs.google.com/document/d/15qSO9YcALtYSqd6CUuGx0t8FwUJ5pPwVPz0PA5rU898/edit#heading=h.f9r6knw0rjvu)
* [Feedback on Mapping from ICG, Part 2](https://docs.google.com/document/d/11OpqMMCXM1TFXgsr4yyTQ_cH9DabnD31p7JnuTRQl28/edit?invite=CMWvruEI&ts=5e66437f)
* [Wants/Needs/Questions Open Document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/12Kpb6826TNPzzMuyPS0sESa9TLnmljQmeioWbaPeEdA/edit)
* [Working Ideas](https://github.com/islandora-interest-groups/Islandora-Metadata-Interest-Group/blob/main/working_docs/ideas_and_topics.md)
* [MIG I8 Glossary](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1cfPYFVV9qvvz2VjBRdYUN0CB7AyVDuG-GYavQ27DuBk/edit#heading=h.9fr9xw70meix)
* [Field of the Week](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1rk0o_0byzeHrSKst0Feval_QeVZmo2DeIP0Mk3jaaFc/edit)

---

#### Attending:
* Chris Day
* Paige Morfitt
* Mike Bolam
* Harriet South
* Staci L. Ross
* Seth Shaw
* Challen Wright
* Pascal Brammeier
* Devon Murphy




### Agenda: 
* Announcements
  * IslandoraCamp recap
  * "Where are you at" survey reminder
  * "Field of the week:" Dates + Access Conditions are coming. Get ready.
* "Welcome to Islandora, Metadata Librarian!" Part 1: MODS to Drupal Fields + Creating New Fields In Islandora
* Open Conversation as time allows


### Notes: 
* IslandoraCamp recap:
  * Having the first day as installation day with docker was helpful
    * docker installation is a big roadbump -- specially when it comes to each computer being different
  * Liked active participation 
  * Good to have trouble-shooting support
  * For socialization: it would be good to have something more structured -- such as activity or conversation prompts -- maybe having a social host to draw people into conversation (want to say away from social time becoming structured like meetings)
 
* "Field of the Week" -- on pause, but the future has us looking at Dates and Access Conditions 
  * Once we're done with going over all the fields, we'll go back and look at issues that were raised 
 
* "Welcome to Islandora, Metadata Librarian! Part 1: MODS to Drupal Fields + Creating New Fields in Islandora (slides: https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1dXFy95E7fylE0v_RImyVkKukTvxHuJz0qQSa6vTqPp8/edit?usp=sharing)
  * It all started with MODS...why are we still talking about it? 
    * DC (Dublin Core) was designed to be broad and generic, however not designed to be as specific as IR's (Institutional Repositories) need to be
    * MODS was designed to reflect MARC and library cataloging is done in MARC thus MODS was more adaptive amongst GLAM communities (Gallaries, Libraries, Archives, Museums). 
    * MODS was fit to grow with collections, use different 
    * MODS has full extent of xml -- and you can check the schema 
       * Note: Metadata is part of a node -- not something that is brought in as attachment. That's because I8 (Islandora 2.0 or New Islandora) is all about making itself apart of Drupal (pros: take advantage of build in field types). Using  field types we'll talk about can better integrate that metadata into views, displays, and other drupal structures. It also brings ease to using RDF (something that would be a good topic in the future -- using RDF to connect with fedora, linked data and blazegraphs)
    * The fields in starter site are not MODS but they are MODS-like. No official schema in I8 and nothing is being validated except for field types. 
    * Fields in starter site reflect bulk of MODS fields, but do not include all MODS fields
    * What do we lose? Flexibility of MODS xml. Adding fields/attributes were easier to add/change whereas drupal locks fields down and cannot be changed easily. And no nice bulk set of metadata you can download, edit and upload. Instead, those are done within drupal and islandora.
    * What do we gain? drupal field types that interact with drupal in a way that pulling from XML couldn't do. We can export data via views (and thus pick which fields to export). We are still transforming data (including transforming to DC) and in the future, a project is to also transform to MODS (aka displaying your metadata in either DC or MODS while also keeping drupal). Because there is no schema, you can add fields you need/custom fields you need. 
    * So the question we've been looking at: is MODS the future of Islandora? Do we still need to reference MODS going forward? The starter site has MODS fields, but that's a suggestion. And if you have a smaller site with simpler metadata, DC would be of more use. 
  *  Field Types: 
     *  Entity reference : 
        *  Brings in power of controlled vocabularies -- a field that can link from one or more taxonomies (and those taxonomy terms can have their own fields). 
        *  Pros: you change the term in the taxonomy it will update elsewhere, you have the ability to add things on the fly, HOWEVER out of the box you cannot do this and would need to do some tweaking
           *  Entity reference can link to single or multiple taxonomies  -- however if you do want to add terms on the fly, you can only use one taxonomy. 
     *  Typed relation: 
        *  Like entity reference field, but links to relators -- connecting name from taxonomy to one of many roles on the pre-loaded I8 field (this is nice because it removes the multiple relator fields that would be needed before)
        *  1 name assigned 1 role, however you can repeat with alternative roles
      *  EDTF:
         *  Validates value against EDTF standards for formatting dates and times
         *  Connects to EDTF formatter which lets you transform string of numbers/characters into something that reads like a free text field (you can tweak the month, how the date displays, allows you to mark uncertain dates...)	
         * Because it validates against EDTF,  you need a leading 0 ahead of single dates/days (so formatting is Year = 4 digits, day= 2 digits, month = 2 digits).
         * Cons: EDTF fields are indexed as strings sill (sorting by characters in string -- cannot identify dates that fall in range/cannot identify uncertain; removed free text capabilities; * when migrating into I8, you will have to do migration clean up of your dates
     * Text Fields:
       * Once you have a set of fields (text (plain), text (plain, long), or text (formatted, long) you cannot make changes
       *  Text (plain) -- maximum 255 characters 
       *  Text (plain, long) -- maximum length of 4GB (4GB is about 1,311,744,512 simple characters (unicode uses multiple)
       *  Text (formated, long) -- allows HTML formatting
     *  Specialized Fields: 
        *  geolocation: lat. and long. values. 
        *  number (integer): allows you to add prefixes such as $, ¢,€
        *  links: allows you to have a link
    *  Field Settings: 
       *  Some are more flexible than others-- some fields allow you to change taxonomies used with field, you can change the label, however, field type and unlimited/limited status cannot be changed after data has been added
       * There are somethings you can change after metadata has been added -- limited/unlimited is one (under specific situations -- such as if you only have one value and the limit is one)
       * But, repeatable values have to be determined before you start adding metadata.
         * And reminder, once field is created you cannot change it. There are some ways to change Field type, however that is really difficult and would require a PHP magician.
         * So on the safe side,  use unlimited UNLESS by definition your field only has one value, then set to limited 
    * Run-through demo of creating a Typed Relation Field!
    * Question: if data is already present in a field but you want to reconfigure a locked in attribute (un/limited, field type, etc), could you purge all data from that field then reconfigure? 
      * Answer: it may be possible to purge all your data, then change the field settings. From test, no it is not likely. However, you would more likely want to purge all data and change field opposed to delete all metadata content
     * Question regarding relators list: to set up new Typed Relation field, you copy the [relators list](www.loc.gov/marc/relators/relaterm.html) from Linked Agents and use those OR add other ontologies such as schema.org or ULAN (you can even create your own). 
   

### Next meeting:
 April 10, 2023
