## Islandora Metadata Interest Group Agenda
### Monday, May 08 2023, [1-2pm EST](http://www.thetimezoneconverter.com/?t=1%20pm&tz=Toronto&) 
#### Join Us Virtually!
* Zoom Link: https://us02web.zoom.us/j/93923574947?pwd=Z1kyY01veFJNbFZFVUg4Mm1jS1FyZz09

---
## Chair Roster
* Paige Morfitt 📝
* Chris Day 🪑
* Rosie Le Faive 🧶📝
---

#### Working Documents:
* [CLAW MIG MODS simplified mapping](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/18u2qFJ014IIxlVpM3JXfDEFccwBZcoFsjbBGpvL0jJI/edit#gid=0)
* [Example MODS for CLAW mapping](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1C2Xie7HUDSgRT5v4ldoJvlNdoXz2GHAPvL3PE3TOKW8/edit#gid=1829081124)
* [Draft Recommendations](https://docs.google.com/document/d/15qSO9YcALtYSqd6CUuGx0t8FwUJ5pPwVPz0PA5rU898/edit#heading=h.f9r6knw0rjvu)
* [Feedback on Mapping from ICG, Part 2](https://docs.google.com/document/d/11OpqMMCXM1TFXgsr4yyTQ_cH9DabnD31p7JnuTRQl28/edit?invite=CMWvruEI&ts=5e66437f)
* [Wants/Needs/Questions Open Document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/12Kpb6826TNPzzMuyPS0sESa9TLnmljQmeioWbaPeEdA/edit)
* [Working Ideas](https://github.com/islandora-interest-groups/Islandora-Metadata-Interest-Group/blob/main/working_docs/ideas_and_topics.md)
* [MIG I8 Glossary](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1cfPYFVV9qvvz2VjBRdYUN0CB7AyVDuG-GYavQ27DuBk/edit#heading=h.9fr9xw70meix)
* [Field of the Week](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1rk0o_0byzeHrSKst0Feval_QeVZmo2DeIP0Mk3jaaFc/edit)

---

#### Attending:
* Chris Day
* Paige Morfitt
* Mike Bolam
* Harriet South
* Pascal Brammeier
* Meaghan Cash
* Dani Kron
* Elisa Naquin
* Seth Shaw


### Agenda: 
* Announcements
* Field Of The Week: Rights!
* Open Conversation as time allows


### Notes: 
* IslanodraCon:
	* Last day to submit proposals is today
	* Early bird registration extended to 28th 

* Field of the week : Rights and Embargos
	* Rights  
		* As set up now, you provide information of the intellectual right  of the item you are putting in Islandora
		* It is a Free Text field
		* Because MODS doesn't have subelements for accessCondition, it suggests two type attributes (Restriction on Access, and Use and Reproduction)
		* When moving to Islandora 8 (new Islandora) you can use the Rights field for Restriction on Access, and/or Use and Reproduction
		* Option: you can turn this field from Free Text into an Entity Reference (for taxonomy usage). This helps create standardized text (similar to what we talked about in Subjects) that allows you to recycle your institutions message without having to retype it every time
		* There are Rights Statements that can also be used in a Free Text or Entity Reference field 
			* [rightsstatement.org](https://rightsstatements.org/page/1.0/?language=en)
				* You are declaring "this is what we believe the copyright status is", you  may not hold copyrights to
item 
			* [europeana](https://pro.europeana.eu/page/available-rights-statements) (has some variations (including copyright specifically for the United States which is slightly different than other countries))
			* [PREMIS](https://docs.rockarch.org/premis-rights-guidelines/)
			* [Creative Commons](https://creativecommons.org/about/cclicenses/) (focuses more on Use and Reproduction) 
				* Rights owner of item has given, some type of permission beyond copyright/beyond public domain is willing to do
			* Note: do not confuse the above with Property Rights	

				* Property Rights -- property rights to the object,  doesn't give intellectual rights away, but allows you the physical right to destroy/sell the physical object (Think your personal books. You have physical property rights to throw the books away, but don't own the copyright to the book)

	* Islandora does not have Rights Statements pre-loaded into. 
	* Rights field is the only required field when using DPLA (they encourage rightsstatement.org for consistency reasons)
		* If you are unable to assess all your items copyright status, some institutions have used "Copyright Not Evaluated" while they do assessment
	* Creative Commons and Rights Statement can be used together in the same Rights field
	* Different from Islandora 7 : The copyright badge  is not in the new Islandora by default. Some work has been done using  taxonomy and theming. 
	* Note: Rights has Field Type *text plain field*. This does not allow you to have the hyperlinks in your field. If you want the hyperlink,  you'd need change your field to Field Type *text long formatted*, or create a new field with Field Type *link*
		* UNLV created a formatter that was a link passthrough using specific terms to trigger a link. It's not difficult to write and you could ask Born Digital (for example)
	* Rights field has a character limit of 1,000. When you add a label, text, URI, and a Copyright statement (example Copyright Statement on Orphan works for europeana), you want to make sure your character limit is not limiting you (Orphan Works statement   is more than 1,000 characters) So be mindful of going out of the box character limit. 
	* Rights fields can do more than copyright. They can limit access for specific communities (Institutional users, Community...)
		* Traditional Knowledge labels -- for collection materials that can only be accessed by specific individuals (women, elders, etc) that is available in Islandora 
		* At Whitman, we use a "field_access_terms" (Field Type: Entity Reference) to restrict access to specific items as well as a "field_limited_access" (Field Type: Text(formatted) that has a message saying the item is only viewed if you log in. (example: https://arminda.whitman.edu/islandora/jed-w-schwendiman-interviewed-ree-robson-0)
		* Another example that shows the metadata of an object but not the item: https://digitalcollections.saic.edu/islandora/object/islandora%3A25047 
		* You can limit who sees your items by IP addresses and user roles



* Embargoes
	* Fields that limited access until a specific date
	* Nothing in default yet for Embargoes, but there is an embargo module
	* At Whitman, we are doing embargoes by hand. We have field_embargo_datewith the date, field_access_terms to allow only the metadata to appear, and field_limited_access to write a message saying the item is under embargo (https://arminda.whitman.edu/theses/2022077) 
* With embargoes, be mindful to lock down all access to your content -- check the back end access, as well as download capabilities 
	* When working with embargoes or limited access, make sure to tie up back-end access. 
		* When looking at video/audio players, you may need to look into it more, because the player has a download button that bypasses access restrictions


* Discussion: 
	* Theses with media attached : theses media files on digital collection site and theses on dspace. This current workflow creates hybrid situation where the media file cannot live with the theses due to where they are hosted. Regarding metadata -- some dspace fields are not matching up to Islandora fields. There is no strong link between media file and it's record in Islandora. Ideally they'd want to limit the people coming across the media first without seeing the item/metadata.
		* Similar situation: would like the digital collection to the record and host the media on the institutions streaming service. 
		* If you are using Alma (or another library platform), you could tie them together -- so linking your Islandora to your Alma/your library cataloging and having the media type in Alma -- however, that doesn't really simplify the metadata (dspace and Islandora use two different schemas)
			* 	When pulling in metadata, it gets messy because Alma/your platform doesn't specify the type of resource 

		* at Duke a while ago, the catalogers used MarcEdit and OAI-MPH harvester and pulled theses/dissertation  records, edit metadata, then push things into Alma. 
		* at Pitt, they harvest Dublin Core metadata into their catalog, pulling a lot in (including images). 
		* UNLV pulls digital repositories into Primo, the search and discovery layer, bypassing ALMA via OAI-PMH Dublin Core.
		* Using digital gateway to map MODS to MARC but only for select collections
### Next meeting:
 June 5, 2023 (no meeting Victoria Day May 22)
