## Islandora Metadata Interest Group Agenda
### Monday, March 14, 2016, 1-2pm EST
### 
---
* Chair: Jennifer Eustis/Amanda Lehman
* Notetaker:  Jennifer Eustis/Amanda Lehman

---

#### How to Join the Meeting  
* Meeting URL: https://uconn-cmr.webex.com/uconn-cmr/j.php?MTID=m2c31587beca52005bdf3c0a3b4607a50
* Audio via Telephone: 1-415-655-0002, code: 649 380 345

---

#### Agenda Items:
* Welcome and introductions
* Brief summary of new format for MIG: The Metadata IG now integrates discussions as well as round tables. Each month a volunteer leads a discussion on a topic of interest. The goal is to learn new ideas and network. The round table is another opportunity for attendees to ask questions, share information, and learn about new approaches. This new format will also include reports from the subgroups. Members are encouraged to participate in the subgroups which can be found on our wiki.

* Duraspace Book Club Discussion Chapters 4-6: triple stores and infrastructure, SPARQL, and moer with RDF and inferencing. More resources: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1hUX6q2ZfvziDCZeZcvn3mynT4e7VkSofgn5wB_yrol0/edit#heading=h.x5kc6ynmn188. Google Group discussion: https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/duraspace-bookclub. How can the internet take us one step further with making connections? This book club is reading "Semantic Web for the Working Ontologist" and working through ideas just as sparql and RDF. The book club goes beyond just reading to incorporate practice on how to construct sparql queries, use different commands to get new data sets or how xml fits in to this work. With this in mind, the book club wants to keep the higher level view of metadata and how to re-use metadata. This book is a good introduction to information structure.

The discussion for next month will be led by Jennifer Eustis on tools for metadata migration and review which will be followed in May by Martha Tenney on customizing the manuscript solution pack.

* Round table discussion
We learned how Barnard is transforming the views module into a Drupal content type to enable users to enter a query on a Drupal page. This is in development and more information will be shared. The advantage of this approach is that it is lightweight and pages load quickly.

We also talked about the the modular nature of Islandora. The benefits are that modules can be adopted to fit local needs or not all modules have to be used. The disadvantage is that for certain users this makes the system harder to use. 
