## Islandora Metadata Interest Group Agenda
### Monday, December 6, 2021, [1-2pm EST](http://www.thetimezoneconverter.com/?t=1%20pm&tz=Toronto&)

---
* Chair: Kristina Spurgin
* Notetaker: 
---

#### Join Us!
* Zoom Link: https://zoom.us/j/82790225209

#### Working Documents:
* [CLAW MIG MODS simplified mapping](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/18u2qFJ014IIxlVpM3JXfDEFccwBZcoFsjbBGpvL0jJI/edit#gid=0)
* [Example MODS for CLAW mapping](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1C2Xie7HUDSgRT5v4ldoJvlNdoXz2GHAPvL3PE3TOKW8/edit#gid=1829081124)
* [Draft Recommendations](https://docs.google.com/document/d/15qSO9YcALtYSqd6CUuGx0t8FwUJ5pPwVPz0PA5rU898/edit#heading=h.f9r6knw0rjvu)
* [Feedback on Mapping from ICG, Part 2](https://docs.google.com/document/d/11OpqMMCXM1TFXgsr4yyTQ_cH9DabnD31p7JnuTRQl28/edit?invite=CMWvruEI&ts=5e66437f)
* [Wants/Needs/Questions Open Document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/12Kpb6826TNPzzMuyPS0sESa9TLnmljQmeioWbaPeEdA/edit)
* [Working Ideas](https://github.com/islandora-interest-groups/Islandora-Metadata-Interest-Group/blob/main/working_docs/ideas_and_topics.md)

---

#### Attending:
* Kristina Spurgin
* Paige Morfitt
* Charlie Tillay
* Chris Day
* David Wisniewski
* Don Richards
* Kate Gerrity
* * Matthew Lincoln 
* Melanie Cofield
* Mike Bolam



### Notes: 
* Announcements
	* 4 people volunteered to work on metadata sprint
	* Glossary terms  - feel free to fill this out/add to it (the DIG wants to merge this in) 
Sprint update

* Sprint update - [working document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1U_y97L25gHrTetPMwnoU9BT4C-MjNnQtdGraChHNdm0/edit?usp=sharing)
	  * Active participants on the metadata topic: Melanie Cofield, Chris Day, Matt Lincoln, Kristina Spurgin 
	  * Recreated metadata document, looking at holes. Each section was taken over and is currently under review. Going over taxonomy types, taxonomy -- goal is to come from a metadata first standpoint, and the type of metadata choices you  make come across that may not have been fully explicit in the original documentation. Linking out ot information that may be useful to people working with metadata
	* If anyone wants to jump in and help documentation, welcome that. 
	* By end of this week, some draft will be crafted to bring to MIG 
	* Meeting from 11am ESTto noon. Every day. Just touching base. Contact Kristina, so Chris can send out meeting invite. 
	* You should not be able to edit it or leave comments on it now. This is a preview of what they are working on and it will be brought to a MIG meeting for comments. 
* Open Topics/Round Table
	* Is there an easy way to export taxonomies? When doing migration, it should look up a taxonomy term -- that is a drupal standard (and something in your code). If reach out to Mark ( to prevent from happening from future) 
		* Search -- export metadata in drupal -- there is a module. You may need to do it in a number of different way, it depends what you want out and your controls in the system. -- there is a structure sync that could be something to look into 
		* No one on the call is exporting metadata out of Islandora 8 yet. 
		* There is a hierarchical taxonomy export that is geared towards 7. 
		* One way to manage metadata is to hold it in 
		* Could be something to bring up in the future, that we’ve look at a series of modules to export metadata
		* Options for export: json export, or configuring views. That seems to be repeated reframe. 
	* Views
		* There is a lot you can do with views, and it seems easy. But you can get things done the way you want in a convoluted way. Caution: what needs to be in code be in code, what needs to be in views, be in views. Be cautions with views. 
		* Sometimes you need to be an expert on metadata, views, drupal and the back end to get simple things to work. --- possibly could write up a use case that allows you to get a CSV of your 	metadata/taxonomy terms. 
		* (Views -- A-Z taxonomy) can show what views can do
		* Islandora Con 2019 had session regarding views 
	* Glossary: When looking up terms add in “Fedora Commons” along with term else you will get terms no related to Islandora
	* CMU -- Carnegie Mellon will be launching their Islandora next wednesday. 
	* Tulane is hiring a metadata librarian -- more information on Slack
	* UT -- University of Texas libraries.  Mandy Ryan left -- planning to recruit for that position in the sprint
    
### Next Meeting:
* December 20, 2021
