## Islandora Metadata Interest Group Agenda
### Monday, October 25, 2021, [1-2pm EST](http://www.thetimezoneconverter.com/?t=1%20pm&tz=Toronto&)

---
* Chair: Kristina Spurgin
* Notetaker: Paige Morfitt
---

#### Join Us!
* Zoom Link: https://whitman.zoom.us/j/95758749875

#### Working Documents:
* [CLAW MIG MODS simplified mapping](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/18u2qFJ014IIxlVpM3JXfDEFccwBZcoFsjbBGpvL0jJI/edit#gid=0)
* [Example MODS for CLAW mapping](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1C2Xie7HUDSgRT5v4ldoJvlNdoXz2GHAPvL3PE3TOKW8/edit#gid=1829081124)
* [Draft Recommendations](https://docs.google.com/document/d/15qSO9YcALtYSqd6CUuGx0t8FwUJ5pPwVPz0PA5rU898/edit#heading=h.f9r6knw0rjvu)
* [Feedback on Mapping from ICG, Part 2](https://docs.google.com/document/d/11OpqMMCXM1TFXgsr4yyTQ_cH9DabnD31p7JnuTRQl28/edit?invite=CMWvruEI&ts=5e66437f)
* [Wants/Needs/Questions Open Document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/12Kpb6826TNPzzMuyPS0sESa9TLnmljQmeioWbaPeEdA/edit)
* [Working Ideas](https://github.com/islandora-interest-groups/Islandora-Metadata-Interest-Group/blob/main/working_docs/ideas_and_topics.md)

---

#### Attending:
* Kristina Spurgin
* Paige Morfitt
* Rosie Le Faive
* Mike Bolam
* Chris Day
* Matt Fesnak
* Karen Gorss Benko
* Abigasil Gulya
* Elisa Naquin
* Don Richard
* Seth Shaw
* David Wisniewski





### Agenda: 
* Announcements
* Conversation: blockers about contributing to Github issues (contributing to metadata issues and making sure our voices are heard)
* Metadata slack question :  In looking to fill more specific needs from my metadata, is the RDA ontology a good, safe bet to take care of a lot of these needs? I'm seeing properties related to theses and series there that would be of use to me, and the MIG mapping seems to make good use of it. (Mapping Document [Islandora MIG: MODS to RDF Mapping Recommendations](https://docs.google.com/document/d/15qSO9YcALtYSqd6CUuGx0t8FwUJ5pPwVPz0PA5rU898); Mapping Spreadsheet [CLAW MIG MODS simplified mapping](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/18u2qFJ014IIxlVpM3JXfDEFccwBZcoFsjbBGpvL0jJI/edit#gid=0)
* Round table



### Notes
* Announcements
	* We decided to go forward without use cases -- they have been added last friday as part of November sprint planning. 
	* Open islandora meeting tomorrow. Community.islandora.ca
	* November Sprint - a “finding solutions sprint”. Does not include coding. If it has not been announced, it will be soon. Sprint is asking the community to engage with issues . https://github.com/Islandora/documentation/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3A%22Subject%3A+Metadata%22 
* Blocker Conversation 
	* Blocker to contribute, is that GitHub is overwhelming / intimidating. 
	* You cannot mess anything up inbe being involved in issues. 
	* From Developer’s  perspective, would encourage people to join in on discussions. It helps make things clear. Mistakes are also good to help make things be understood better. And there are plenty of checks and balances to prevent mistakes happening
	* Possibility for us to walk through how to contribute in GitHub. We could also have conversations about issues that come up. And possibly create a ticket based on conversations MIG has, making it a collaborative discussion. 
	* Slack is also a good place to ask questions, and contribute. 
	* Would like to normalize not knowing everything / “stupid” questions. 
	* Blocker -- sometimes you don’t know what to ask. Having a step by step may be useful to other people starting off
	* Most people on this call are not about setting the site up (other people do that)
	* Metadata librarians are in the same boat -- all trying to figure out what “metadata librarian” means and what work that entails -- this group is a good place to go for people who are new to metadata. 

* Slack question
	* Mapping custom fields to RDF and Islandora 8 -- using MIGs mapping. Looking at MIG’s ontologies and seeing if there were other values that fit specific needs. Asking about RDA specifically. Also using VRA Coar and SKOS. 
	* Whitman has been using RDA for our fields. It worked well so far.
	* For departments, we used a linked agents field and created our own relators. 
	* Schema: instant with scope. Google doesn’t like schema when your type is not their type. Unsure how picky RDA is with scope. 
	* Linked agent and plant entity reference: entity reference is single predicate you want to use, where the value will change. Linked agent benefit is the ability to swap out predicates (such as mark relators).
	* Donor field example: you don’t have to have it as a linked agent, you can have the relator.  
	* Would like more documentation on how to map fields. Especially because there is no right answer. Essentially you are creating your own schema. 
	* Information has been shared, however not in the right way to best benefit the community. BA bigger discussion could be how can we make this more approachable, and does it all have to be a Use Case format? Giving examples could help us bring together how do do something (gathering information on what steps you should do first to share that information) 
	* Tickets has a new tabs for discussions as well. 
	* Managing drupal fields as our drupal schema is scary waters because it’s unknown how to do that. Specially because Drupal is digging into our metadata more so than any other metadata profile used before. Getting your metadata out of Drupal is difficult, and it’s unclear if that’s what people need. 
	* Are there common steps / can we create a common step to get metadata into Islandora 8? -- there is a lot of variation you get abstract on those steps. There is no one way to migrate metadata which makes documentation difficult. 
	* Possibly showing one way to migrate your metadata from 7-8 with the basic sandbox default fields to show how the process would be worn for ONE proses. With the note that this is ONE way to migrate. 

    
### Next Meeting:
* November 8, 2021
	* [Talking about importance of Drupal fields](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1VGBqBMDOlzVnNKLxO-n7WdeZpHPjY_LGrdwKTqeMt7Y/edit?usp=sharing)
