## Islandora Metadata Interest Group Agenda
### Monday, July 19, 2021, [1-2pm EST](http://www.thetimezoneconverter.com/?t=1%20pm&tz=Toronto&)

---
* Chair: Kristina Spurgin
* Notetaker: Paige Morfitt
---

#### Join Us!
* Zoom Link: https://zoom.us/j/82790225209

#### Working Documents:
* [CLAW MIG MODS simplified mapping](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/18u2qFJ014IIxlVpM3JXfDEFccwBZcoFsjbBGpvL0jJI/edit#gid=0)
* [Example MODS for CLAW mapping](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1C2Xie7HUDSgRT5v4ldoJvlNdoXz2GHAPvL3PE3TOKW8/edit#gid=1829081124)
* [Draft Recommendations](https://docs.google.com/document/d/15qSO9YcALtYSqd6CUuGx0t8FwUJ5pPwVPz0PA5rU898/edit#heading=h.f9r6knw0rjvu)
* [Feedback on Mapping from ICG, Part 2](https://docs.google.com/document/d/11OpqMMCXM1TFXgsr4yyTQ_cH9DabnD31p7JnuTRQl28/edit?invite=CMWvruEI&ts=5e66437f)
* [Wants/Needs/Questions Open Document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/12Kpb6826TNPzzMuyPS0sESa9TLnmljQmeioWbaPeEdA/edit)
* [Working Ideas](https://github.com/islandora-interest-groups/Islandora-Metadata-Interest-Group/blob/main/working_docs/ideas_and_topics.md)

---

#### Attending:
* Kristina Spurgin
* Paige Morfitt
* Charlie Tillay
* Julie Bell
* Mike Bolam
* Rosie le Feive
* Gabi Gulya
* Melissa Laverdure
* Mandy Ryan
* Jacob Shelby
* Brandon Weigel
* Chris




### Agenda:
* Announcements
* Taxonomy in Drupal (Kristina)
* Glossary Term Identiifcation sprint
 * [Instructions](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1yWdKtAGSn9VV7pD4k2aYQFhDX0rQSYPaw49iQVLJFLI/edit?usp=sharing)
 * [Glossary](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1cfPYFVV9qvvz2VjBRdYUN0CB7AyVDuG-GYavQ27DuBk/edit#heading=h.tas1lxv81uj2)
* Round table 



### Notes
* Announcements
	* Islandora open meeting: “Summer of Islandora”  next Tuesday (the 27th). 
* Taxonomy in Drupal presentation by Kristina - [slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1LfpU6H4qxXtnYQPFntwMNtsgtU30yzp2MxwKKAllUOc/edit?usp=sharing)
	* Drupal user guide is pretty good. It starts off assuming you don’t know much. However, it’s built around building a website for a farmers market
	* Taxonomy - used to classify website content (tags to classified posts on blog, or ingredients for recipes) 
	* Individual Taxonomy entities - terms (blog tags, carrots)
	* Set of terms known as a vocabulary 
	* Islandora 8 taxonomy vocabularies (Corporate body, family, geographic location, etc ) 
	* Vocabularies that start with “islandora” are islandora specific and serve an islandora function. 
	* You log into islandora, go to manage- structure- taxonomy. 
	* New release will add genre, language, and physical form vocabularies. 
	* Taxonomy terms -- are an entity type. And entity subtypes of entity terms are vocabularies
	* In sandbox, default -- there is repository item content type. 
	* Content item are objects we have in islandora
	* By drupal default, we get basic page and article as defaults
	* These are cluster of fields used to describe an item in islandora
	* You can add your own vocabulary. 
	* Taxonomy terms can have fields attached
	* When add new taxonomy, you can add vocabulary 
	* Once you’ve added your vocabulary, then you can add your terms (tags) 
	* Name = is the term “string” this will display big and bold on the taxonomy term page
	* Description = textual description of the term. Doesn’t display elsewhere
	* Relations = if have terms already, this will allow you to select parent term (hierarchy) 
	* URL alias = your filed gets a number by default (term/27), but here you could add in a term (/cats) and that would be the term. 
	* If you uncheck “Published” you term may or maynot be viewable. This seems to be customizable. 
	* What’s missing on this page? 
	* Nothing about synonyms or related terms (no see also), no term status, no indication of term source (URI) 
	* Drupal has no contempt of these things.
	* You can add fields to vocabularies
	* You can add authority sources, in this case you can add LCSH subject url 
	* By default, you have to manually put these in. there is no verification or anything. 
	* For person : Birth and death date can be added, preferred name,.. UNLV utilized Person relationships in their repository and it’s a good place to look
	* This is NOT a controlled vocabulary. When setting up field in content type, you have the option to set up a reference entity. When you check that, you do NOT have a controlled vocabulary. Unless other work has been done, if you start typing a non preferred term in you form, the term you want may not even show up. There are ways to make this work, but not by default
	* Going on public view and selecting a term (cats), you just see all the items that have cats as a term.
	* In some cases, there is no differentiation between author and subject of things. So if you have Cats as author, and Cats as subject, there is no differentiation when you click on “Cats” on the public side
	* Hierarchy is supported. Easily supported when your vocab is small
	* Uniqueness of your terms is not enforced in the system. Of you’re not careful, you can have the same term twice, and it’ll assign the term two different numbersNo way to identify duplicates, no way to merge two terms together. If you make changes to the term so it matches an earlier term, it will NOT merge-- that merging needs to happen at the underlying data area. 
	* (So be careful when adding terms)
	* However, if you update a term in the subject taxonomy (change cats to big cats) that node (term/27) will change in all items from cats to big cats  
	* Q: Is there a way to write this into text document or excel form, the upload taxonomy? You can use workbench and bring your id, name, description, url, and such (your taxonomy) and bring it into islandora 8
	* Q: What is the level of hierarchy for this? How far down do you go with terms? Example, fungal genetics,, do you add in all taxonomies, or just add in specific taxonomy you need/that you’re dealing with. You could go straight to the term you need. At a later point you need to add it later. 
	* Q: They are adding 3 new taxonmois? Genre -- can you use this only in genre, or in multiple fields when needed? Content type that comes in default, has a genre field. The intent is that this is supposed to be controlled by a vocabulary and initially it didn’t get se tup that way. However, there is no “genre drupal field”. If you wanted genre as a subject, you could configure your field to allow genre along with person, subject. 
	* Q: primary indicators -- is there a way built into the taxonomy if something is a primary genre term or primary contributor? Or is that a new field to add? Part of MODS you can assign type (primary or not primary) -- how does that work in I8? It would not be in a taxonomy term. As same person could be primary in one thing, and not in another thing.  Normally the primary name comes first, so there is no good way to model that in Drupal. And it’s assumed that the person stated first gets preference.  You could also look for another role to indicate primary contributor, however that’s if you want a separate field for that person. 
* Glossary Term Identiifcation sprint ([Instructions](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1yWdKtAGSn9VV7pD4k2aYQFhDX0rQSYPaw49iQVLJFLI/edit?usp=sharing))
	* Based on DIG (Documentation Interest Group) spring in May 
	* Go to Group Members Tab -- add your name, initial and Group ID you are looking at 
	* This sprint is for us to help identify terms you did not understand that you need to understand for your work and your workflow. 
	* If you’re new with Islandora, suggested to look at  Group ID 1. This does NOT mean you need to do all Group 1, just that you focused on Group 1 pages. 
	* And as you go through the documentation and come across terms you are unfamiliar with, add it to the Glossary. 
	* If you have time to fill out ther meaning of the term, you can record it, however, this sprint is for identifying terms that need better documentation  to them
	* You are adding your initials to the glossary term, not the spreadsheet. 
* Round table: 
	* Whitman is starting to migrate our stuff from Islandora 7 to 8 this week! 
 
	
	

    
### Next Meeting:
* August 2, 2021
