## Islandora Metadata Interest Group Agenda
### Monday, June 14, 2021, [1-2pm EST](http://www.thetimezoneconverter.com/?t=1%20pm&tz=Toronto&)

---
* Chair: Kristina Spurgin
* Notetaker: Paige Morfitt
---

#### Join Us!
* Zoom Link: https://zoom.us/j/82790225209

#### Working Documents:
* [CLAW MIG MODS simplified mapping](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/18u2qFJ014IIxlVpM3JXfDEFccwBZcoFsjbBGpvL0jJI/edit#gid=0)
* [Example MODS for CLAW mapping](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1C2Xie7HUDSgRT5v4ldoJvlNdoXz2GHAPvL3PE3TOKW8/edit#gid=1829081124)
* [Draft Recommendations](https://docs.google.com/document/d/15qSO9YcALtYSqd6CUuGx0t8FwUJ5pPwVPz0PA5rU898/edit#heading=h.f9r6knw0rjvu)
* [Feedback on Mapping from ICG, Part 2](https://docs.google.com/document/d/11OpqMMCXM1TFXgsr4yyTQ_cH9DabnD31p7JnuTRQl28/edit?invite=CMWvruEI&ts=5e66437f)
* [Wants/Needs/Questions Open Document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/12Kpb6826TNPzzMuyPS0sESa9TLnmljQmeioWbaPeEdA/edit)
* [Working Ideas](https://github.com/islandora-interest-groups/Islandora-Metadata-Interest-Group/blob/main/working_docs/ideas_and_topics.md)

---

#### Attending:
*  Kristina Spurgin
*  Paige Morfitt
*  Charlie Tillay
*  Karen Benko
*  Mike Bolam
*  Chris Day
*  Kate Gerrity
*  Danny Lamb
*  Rosie Le Faive
*  Mandy Ryan





### Agenda:
* Announcements
* Review of survey results 
* Rosie will give a summary of the [Islandora Tech Call](https://github.com/Islandora/documentation/wiki/Tech-Call-2021) (15 min description of what happened) 
* Break down what we don’t understand from the Tech Call and document it 
	* adding to [glossary terms](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1cfPYFVV9qvvz2VjBRdYUN0CB7AyVDuG-GYavQ27DuBk/edit#) document words and terms individuals are unfamiliar with
	* adding questions for the next tech call to a [document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1QCdoZdsMvV54-7rsW87bqem1bQDg914pFpKbTanNU7Q/edit?usp=sharing))
* Round table 


### Notes
*  Announcements
	*  Unformalized go-betweens with a few of Islandora groups. Is someone on the call regularly attends other Islandora meetings, or digital library meetings, we’re interested in people giving reports (similar to what Rosie is doing today)
	*  In the works of creating formalized list
	*  Islandora conference : ICC wanted to do conference, and is turing open meetings into themed “things” and turning it into “summer of islandora”. The first meeting is introductions to get things started. Thoughts or suggest would go to Danny Lamb or anyone on ICC community 
*   Review of survey results
	*  No new survey results since end of may
	*  Looks like glossary was number 1 big priority. 
	*  Some participants outside of MIG participated. Some survey descriptions were unclear to people who do not participate in MIG, and could relate to terms needing to be added to a glossary
	*  Question 1 - big priority (things that would be a sprint, or take about 6 months do to). The Glossary ranked #1, followed by Use Cases then Forms. 
	*  Question 2 - involved some things that had already been addressed, possibly from outside of MIG. Controlled Vocabulary fields ranked #1, followed by EDTF and conversations of Display vs Storages. Separate drupal node information and information about content ranked #3
	*  Contact Tillay on slack if you want raw survey data. 
	*  Glossary work would be more integrated. We want to normalize asking what terms are. So if there is a term you are unfamiliar with, ask in a meeting, or add in chat as it’s likely other people won’t know what it means either. It’s okay to note if a sentence doesn’t make sense as well; we don’t want knowledge to be a barrier to information. 
*  Rosie summary of Islandora Tech Call
	*  Matt presented model use case “Islandora Lite” 
	*  He was using Islandora stuff without using the islandora module. 
	*  There will be implementations and could open up changes to code changes, and a lot of it will include metadata. 
	*  Matt said a lot of the changes will include metadata, and work on untangling islandora from working as a “knot” of things working together
	*  Reason doing this: if you don’t want to run full islandora architecture, if you want to run something other than fedora (want Islandora but not fedora layer), easier maintenance and deployment but still have checksums monitoring and import and exporting 
	*  The idea was to make this as modular as possible
	*  They’re looking at MODS or Dublin Core content types
	*  Problem: how to upgrade. Once you start a site or sandbox, (because how features work) it’s yours. How you organize your information is up to you.(because out of the box as of now is not ready to work without customizations). And if something changes in the default of I8 after you’ve downloaded a site, it will be very difficult to incorporate those defaults into your site (and you may lose data in the process todo so)
	*  By separating out how you store your data means you could potentially receive those updates form I8 in an easier way (though you still risk losing data)
	*  Documentation is very detailed in what has changed, so if you want to update your site, then it can be done. 
	*  Thinking about  having several content types opposed to one default where everything is 
	*  Unclear if this will go forward, but the demo and idea were both interesting
*  Comments: 
	*  Tech calls are not recorded
	*  Fits with having a repository of content types.
	*  Linked data is becoming important - looking at using Primo (Alma) and DC. 
	*  Linked data is not corrupt, it’s the configuration that causes problems 
	*  How is jsonld  generated? What is search API doing? You cannot generate blank nodes with jsonld. Without adding blank node, how do you associate right date with right person with right publisher?  Next sprint possibly asking developers questions like how is jsonld generated?  
	*  Would like to know more about Islandora 8 system before any decisions about Fedora-less structure can go forward. 
	*  Three scenarios of jstonld going on : jsonld end point is 99% what gets into fedora, but you have to mush it in to get into Fedora. And once Fedora takes it, it adds it’s tripes 
	*  Jsonld is not rdf. You can express RDF in jsonld but they are not the same. Is jsonld converted into actual formal rdf fedora accepts? Jsonld is accepted as a ‘flavor’ serialization or expression. Now,  Fedora could not track anything that was not in fedora.  And adding blank nodes is a way to avoid handling things Fedora couldn't handle in the past. : 
	*  Once you’ve picked a content type, you’re stuck with it because you can’t change the node. 
	*  Smaller institutions may like the idea of modules instead of taking the default and taking time to customize it. Specifically because each time you create a new content type you have to customize it all over again


### Next Meeting:
* June 28, 2021
