## Islandora Metadata Interest Group Agenda
### Monday, February 08, 2021, [1-2pm EST](http://www.thetimezoneconverter.com/?t=1%20pm&tz=Toronto&)

---
* Chair: Kristina Spurgin
* Notetaker: Paige Morfitt
---

#### Join Us!
* Zoom Link: https://zoom.us/j/82790225209

#### Working Documents:
* [CLAW MIG MODS simplified mapping](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/18u2qFJ014IIxlVpM3JXfDEFccwBZcoFsjbBGpvL0jJI/edit#gid=0)
* [Example MODS for CLAW mapping](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1C2Xie7HUDSgRT5v4ldoJvlNdoXz2GHAPvL3PE3TOKW8/edit#gid=1829081124)
* [Draft Recommendations](https://docs.google.com/document/d/15qSO9YcALtYSqd6CUuGx0t8FwUJ5pPwVPz0PA5rU898/edit#heading=h.f9r6knw0rjvu)
* [Feedback on Mapping from ICG, Part 2](https://docs.google.com/document/d/11OpqMMCXM1TFXgsr4yyTQ_cH9DabnD31p7JnuTRQl28/edit?invite=CMWvruEI&ts=5e66437f)
* [Wants/Needs/Questions Open Document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/12Kpb6826TNPzzMuyPS0sESa9TLnmljQmeioWbaPeEdA/edit)
* [Working Ideas](https://github.com/islandora-interest-groups/Islandora-Metadata-Interest-Group/blob/main/working_docs/ideas_and_topics.md)

---

#### Attending:
* Kristina Spurgin
* Paige Morfitt
* Melissa Anez 
* Mike Bolam
* Melanie Cofield
* Morgan Colbert
* Gabi Gulya
* Mirko Hanke
* Alex Kent
* Danny Lamb
* Mandy Ryan
* Seth Shaw
* davew




### Agenda:
* Announcements
* Danny presentation and looking behind the scenes at drupal and islandora



### Notes
* Announcements
	* new co-conveners  have taken reigns from Mike and Rosie (Thank you both for your service!)
	* Interested in EDTF dates? There are issues around display of several EDTF date patterns your feedback would be welcome on. The issues are gathered on [the new EDTF meta-issue](https://github.com/Islandora/documentation/issues/1748).
* Taking a look under the Islandora / drupal hood
	* Anyone who has installed islandora default will have this. 
	* This is also available in [the Islandora 8 sandbox site](http://future.islandora.ca/), which anyone can access as admin
  * **Conceptual/scope note**
    * Ultimately there are two things we want to check: (1) That a given migration configuration results in the expected Drupal fields in I8. For example, that a given MODS element value ends up in a given Drupal field; and (2) That a given Drupal field is configured as expected (i.e. field name, multivalued or not, populated by controlled vocabulary, maps to RDF as expected)
    * What we have is basically 2 mappings: (1) MODS -> Drupal fields; and (2) Drupal fields -> RDF. We can't verify MODS -> RDF because Drupal creates the RDF in I8, using Drupal fields. The process of getting MODS (or any other metadata) into I8 Drupal fields is completely separate from the RDF mappings.
    * Our **first step** is to check #2. 
  * **How to check the RDF mappings for Drupal fields**
	  * Go to any Repository Item node. (All are listed on [Content tab](http://future.islandora.ca/admin/content?title=&type=islandora_object&status=All&langcode=All).) 
    * Add `?_format=jsonld` to the end of the node URL to view a json representation of the RDF mapping.
  * **To edit RDF mappings (NOT required for our sprint)**
	  * To play around with mapping, in as admin, go to configuration synchronization. You can export/import [yaml files](http://yaml.org)
	  * *Exporting* : select the export tab. You want the single item (full archive will give you a zip of all your stuff). From the single item, under config type there is an option for RDF mapping you want to select. On the drop down below, you want to select node.islandora_object (this is the descriptive metadata)
	  * From there the yaml will appear in the box. 
	  * *key to yaml* : if you see something that looks cryptic, it's best to not touch it because it's likely  system information 
	  * On the yaml, there are two points you want to pay attention to: the first is Types (how you set RDF types), and fieldMappings. Those two areas are where you want to pay attention. Normally the field is the machine name of the field, too. 
	  * *Importing* : From the import tab, you can import a single item, indicate that it's an RDF mapping, and past the yaml into the box. 
	  * You don't have to tell islandora it's a  islandora object. It knows that. However, this is just for existing objects your editing. It uses the cryptic information on top of the yaml to figure out that it's an islandora object. New items are trickier.
	  * When changing the mapping, hunt for what you want to change, and change (so changing from dc:title to schema:title you can edit on the import box). 
  * **How to verify/examine field configuration**
	  * Note : All this stuff about the structure and definition of nodes and fields, etc. is core Drupal stuff, and not Islandora specific. Islandora out of the box does come with a number of Islandora-specific Drupal fields set up on the Repository Item content type. These are what we will work on verifying.
	  * I8 admin bar > Structure > Content Types > Repository Item > Manage fields
      * Repository Item is the main content node where the descriptive metadata lives. Under Structure, you will also see `Media Type` and `Taxonomy`. Media types are for the actual objects (media files) associated with a Repository Item. Taxonomies are controlled vocabularies managed in Drupal. Both media types and taxonomies can have their own field sets defined. **But for the purpose of our sprint, we'll be looking at Repository Item fields.**
      * Article and Basic page are content types that come by default in Drupal. Repository Item is Islandora-specific. 
    * You will now see a list of all the fields defined for Repository Items.
      * Label is human name for field.
      * Machine name is Drupal's under-the-hood name for the field, which is useful to know for setting up migration configurations or editing field configurations by YAML
      * Field type
        * Several of them are pretty self-explanatory
        * **Entity reference** : Everything you make in Drupal is an entity: a Repository Item node, a Media file, a Taxonomy term. This field type creates a reference to another entity as your field type value. This is a core Drupal field type. You could directly reference another Repository Item node in a Related Object field. But the primary use of this is in our descriptive metadata is to ensure a given field is populated from a taxonomy (or taxonomies).
        * **EDTF** : I8-specific field type for EDTF dates
        * **Typed relation** : I8-specific field type that creates an Entity reference, but also associates a type value with that relationship. A primary use of this for us is being able to associate a role/relator term with a name used in a description (in the "Linked Agent" field). The entity reference part is the link to the name in the relevant taxonomy, and then the role/relator is the "Type" in the typed relation. The available "types" are hard-coded in the "Available Relations" section of the field configuration.
          * Seth: RDF mapping (for names) defaults to contributor, but behind the scenes magic happens where you use a specific predicate for different roles
          * Kristina (later): I'm not sure what "defaults to" means here, because you have to choose a specific type/relation when you fill in a typed relation field. There's no "no role/relator" option to choose in the "Linked Agent" field. Because each selectable relator term is associated specifically with a predicate, that's the predicate that gets used.
     *  From the drop-down menu at the right for each field, you can click "Edit" or "Storage settings" to begin viewing field configuration. Note that if you have clicked on "Edit," the "Field settings" tab is the same place you go if you select "Storage settings" from the drop-down menu
     * *Storage settings/Field settings* is where you find whether the field is single-valued or repeatable, as well as the maximum length of the field
     * *Edit* is where you can see whether the field is required, if it has a default value, visibility/privacy (public can see or only staff authenticated into Islandora can see?), and various other things that control the behavior of the field depending on the field type. (For instance, for an Entity reference field, you can select what types of entities can be used to populate the field (i.e. what controlled vocabularies are allowed)
     * In general, the aspects of the field configuration that are relevant to our purposes here are pretty clearly labeled. Other things like "Reference type > Reference method" under Edit on an Entity reference field can be ignored
    
### Next Meeting:
* February 22, 2021
	* Answering questions that may have come up from today 
    * Sprint organization ([Field mapping verification sprint spreadsheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1-L_eAaNBvnVWb05HFrnNHKM6Bn2ULDKxurB9ZXRYCpU/edit#gid=0)) 
  
	
