  ## Islandora Metadata Interest Group Agenda
### Monday, January 6, 2025, [1-2pm EDT](http://www.thetimezoneconverter.com/?t=1%20pm&tz=Toronto&) 
#### Join Us Virtually!
* Zoom Link: https://us02web.zoom.us/j/93923574947?pwd=Z1kyY01veFJNbFZFVUg4Mm1jS1FyZz09

---
## Chair Roster
* Chris Day ü™ë
* Paige Morfitt
* Dani Kroon üìù
---

#### Working Documents:
* [Islandora Starter Site Metadata Configuration](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1N37GSwiDl_DSH9-n3BhWLUtjZohOg2udGJJlnZ8BmWQ/edit#gid=0)
* [Islandora Starter Site Metadata Documentation](https://islandora.github.io/documentation/user-documentation/starter-site-metadata-configuration/)
* [CLAW MIG MODS simplified mapping](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/18u2qFJ014IIxlVpM3JXfDEFccwBZcoFsjbBGpvL0jJI/edit#gid=0)
* [Example MODS for CLAW mapping](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1C2Xie7HUDSgRT5v4ldoJvlNdoXz2GHAPvL3PE3TOKW8/edit#gid=1829081124)
* [Draft Recommendations](https://docs.google.com/document/d/15qSO9YcALtYSqd6CUuGx0t8FwUJ5pPwVPz0PA5rU898/edit#heading=h.f9r6knw0rjvu)
* [Feedback on Mapping from ICG, Part 2](https://docs.google.com/document/d/11OpqMMCXM1TFXgsr4yyTQ_cH9DabnD31p7JnuTRQl28/edit?invite=CMWvruEI&ts=5e66437f)
* [Wants/Needs/Questions Open Document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/12Kpb6826TNPzzMuyPS0sESa9TLnmljQmeioWbaPeEdA/edit)
* [Working Ideas](https://github.com/islandora-interest-groups/Islandora-Metadata-Interest-Group/blob/main/working_docs/ideas_and_topics.md)
* [MIG I8 Glossary](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1cfPYFVV9qvvz2VjBRdYUN0CB7AyVDuG-GYavQ27DuBk/edit#heading=h.9fr9xw70meix)

---

#### Attending:
* Chris Day
* Jenny Bradshaw
* Seth Shaw
* Rosie Le Faive
* Meaghan Cash
* Stephanie Perrota
* Michael Bolam
* Tryica Ty'nae Terry Kapral
* Dani Kroon


### Agenda: 
* Announcements
* Open Conversation 


### Notes:
Announcements
* Chris represents the MIG at the Leadership Group, which met in December. At this point, there is nothing to report.
Open Conversation
* Most institutions are in the midst of migrating from Islandora 7 to modern or have completed the migration.
* Mapping many fields (MODS/MARC) into a smaller subset of fields is challenging.
* Mapping from/to MODS, MARC, and Dublin Core is complex. Issues with concatenated data points are not always straightforward translations. Combining various standards into one standard is a challenge.
* To accommodate various data points, build separate Drupal between Maps, books, etc.
* Deleting a field associated with a Facet breaks faceting, which is challenging to troubleshoot.
* Discussion about the merits of using a taxonomy for rights statements, using the associated taxonomy description field to display text and Rights URL.




### Next meeting
* Feb.3, 2025
