## Islandora Metadata Interest Group - Authorities Subgroup Agenda
### Tuesday, June 7, 2016
### 1:00pm EDT
---
#### Joining the Call

The meeting will take place over Skype. To participate, please e-mail Felicity Dykas (DykasF [at] missouri [dot] edu) with the Skype username at which you wish to be called.

#### Agenda Items

* Review notes from previous meeting
* Review use cases
* Next steps

#### Meeting Notes

In attendance:

* Kevin Clair
* Felicity Dykas
* Joseph Nicholson

1. Notes from previous meeting:  https://github.com/islandora-interest-groups/Islandora-Metadata-Interest-Group/blob/main/Authorities-Subgroup/Meetings/Agenda_20160405.md

2. Review Use Cases

**Authority Term Import - Kevin**

Discussion:  This use case may require architecture that doesn’t exist yet.  Ideally, the subject and genre authorities will be stored as identifiers, though interim steps may be needed until that is possible.

Autocomplete when entering metadata and the inclusion of linked data that enables dynamic updating of display strings are separate use cases.

**2.2. Accessing information about entities and resources associated with entities from entities lists - Joseph**

Discussion: The current Islandora entities module ([example](http://data.researchspaces.ca/browse_scholars_dt)) is not useful for non-institutional repository uses. The entities module needs to be expanded beyond institutional repository uses.

3. Next steps

Because many members were not able to attend this meeting, Felicity will send the two use cases out to the subgroup again to solicit additional feedback.  Following that, Kevin and Joseph will post them on the MIG site: [Use Cases Users Stories](https://github.com/islandora-interest-groups/Islandora-Metadata-Interest-Group/wiki/Use-Cases-Users-Stories).

We need to find out from Jennifer what MIG’s next steps will be.  Will they prioritize these and submit them as official Islandora tickets?  Use cases have not yet been submitted by MIG or other subgroups.

4. Next meeting

Proposed agenda items:

* We are interested in learning more about Islandora CLAW and will invite Nick to speak about it.
* Review additional use cases:

  * Look-up feature using auto-complete and type-ahead functionality, that will search through existing subject or name heading files and allow a cataloger to select the authorized access point and to link to the record, which may be stored locally or available at a remote site. (Felicity)
  * The ability to store authority data imported to Islandora using a URI, and the ability to dynamically display a text string to the user using that URI. (Felicity)
  * Batch editing of metadata. (Not assigned).  This exists in XQuery now. See sample XQuery queries using Islandora XQuery. Still good to contribute it as a use case to get it on CLAW developer radar, and consider options to execute batch editing in a way that doesn't involve the need to know scripting. More: Drupal Views Bulk Operations
  * The ability to use information in authority records (aka entity records) for persons, corporate bodies, places, and subjects. Users might click on an access point or information button and retrieve information from the record, or the information in the record could be linked to additional resources of interest to users. Linkable fields might collocate associated information. E.g., persons born in England. The information might be used during the discovery process or to display information related to a chosen resource. (Not yet assigned)

As the first Tuesday of July falls during the same week as a U.S. holiday, the next meeting will be Tuesday, July 12.
