## Islandora Metadata Interest Group - Authorities Subgroup Agenda
### Tuesday, April 5, 2016
### 1:00pm EDT
---
#### Joining the Call

The meeting will take place over Skype. To participate, please e-mail Felicity Dykas (DykasF [at] missouri [dot] edu) with the Skype username at which you wish to be called.

#### Agenda Items

* Review of charge and desired outcomes
* Review progress on to-do list
* Brainstorm use cases to contribute to the list at [https://github.com/islandora-interest-groups/Islandora-Metadata-Interest-Group/wiki/Use-Cases-Users-Stories](https://github.com/islandora-interest-groups/Islandora-Metadata-Interest-Group/wiki/Use-Cases-Users-Stories)

#### Meeting Notes

In attendance:

* Felicity Dykas
* Kevin Clair
* Nick Ruest
* Joseph Nicholson
* Bryan Brown

**Entity solution pack:** Joseph has worked with the Entity Solution Pack; they have it up and running at UNCG and he's experimented with it a little bit. Has created new MADS records in the solution pack, batch uploaded MADS using CSV, etc. Impression he gets is that it's designed with IR use cases in mind and the design is with that in mind. He and a developer are working to try and customize it for non-IR use cases. More work is ongoing.

Outcomes: what should the target stack be? Current application stack, or CLAW? It makes sense to focus on CLAW since that's where most of the development activity is taking place; the other side of this is that most of us are working on a current, functional release of Islandora, which we may need authority functionality built into now.

Nick provided a brief update on [CLAW development and use case contribution mechanisms](https://github.com/Islandora-CLAW/CLAW/blob/7.x-2.x/CONTRIBUTING.md). A use case contribution template is [here](https://github.com/islandora-interest-groups/Islandora-Fedora4-Interest-Group/wiki/Use-Case-template). Current issues are [here](https://github.com/Islandora-CLAW/CLAW/issues). The weekly CLAW calls are open to the public and anyone with ideas on how the CLAW development process should move forward is welcome to attend.

Objective of forming the "desired functions" from the February meeting into use cases to contribute. These are available [in the February meeting minutes](Agenda_20160202.md).

Jennifer (via e-mail) suggested that the taxonomy list in the form builder doesn't quite do the job, and a more desired outcome would be to "search... the controlled linked version of the vocabulary and brings in both the term and its associated uri."

Another desired feature would be to edit a single entity record (e.g. for a subject or named authority) and have that change propagate throughout all the resources in Islandora linked to that record. For example, changing the display string of a subject heading, or the life dates attached to a personal name record.

Basic features we would like to contribute as use cases (volunteer to write it up listed in parentheses):

* A lookup feature, using auto-complete and typeahead functionality, that will search through existing subject or name heading files and allow a cataloger to select the authorized access point and to link to the record, which may be stored locally or available at a remote site. (Felicity)
* An authority import manager, where a metadata manager may import and manage linked data vocabularies for use within Islandora (such as [VIAF](http://viaf.org) or [id.loc.gov](http://id.loc.gov)). (Kevin)
* The ability to store authority data imported to Islandora using a URI, and the ability to dynamically display a text string to the user using that URI. (Felicity)
* The ability to display lists of entities for persons, corporate bodies, and places and to access information about them. The system might use MADS.  See [Bowing Down Home](https://bowingdownhome.ca) and its presentation of lists of people, tunes, etc., for an idea of how this might work.  (Joseph)
* Batch editing of metadata
  * This exists in XQuery now. See [sample XQuery queries using Islandora XQuery](https://github.com/discoverygarden/islandora_xquery)
  * Still good to contribute it as a use case to get it on CLAW developer radar, and consider options to execute batch editing in a way that doesn't involve the need to know scripting.
  * More: [Drupal Views Bulk Operations](https://www.drupal.org/project/views_bulk_operations)
* The ability to use information in authority records (aka entity records) for persons, corporate bodies, places, and subjects. Users might click on an access point or information button and retrieve information from the record, or the information in the record could be linked to additional resources of interest to users.  Linkable fields might collocate associated information.  E.g., persons born in England.  The information might be used during the discovery process or to display information related to a chosen resource. (Not yet assigned)

For future development: Reconciliation of terms.

The next meeting will be on Tuesday, May 3, at 1:00pm EDT.
