## Islandora Metadata Interest Group Agenda
### Wednesday, August 3, 2022, [3-4pm ADT](https://dateful.com/convert/canada-halifax?t=4p.m.)
Hybrid meeting! Location (room) will be announced at IslandoraCon.
#### Join Us Virtually!
* Zoom Link: https://zoom.us/j/82790225209

---
* Chair: Rosie Le Faive
* Notetaker: Paige Morfitt
---

#### Working Documents:
* [CLAW MIG MODS simplified mapping](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/18u2qFJ014IIxlVpM3JXfDEFccwBZcoFsjbBGpvL0jJI/edit#gid=0)
* [Example MODS for CLAW mapping](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1C2Xie7HUDSgRT5v4ldoJvlNdoXz2GHAPvL3PE3TOKW8/edit#gid=1829081124)
* [Draft Recommendations](https://docs.google.com/document/d/15qSO9YcALtYSqd6CUuGx0t8FwUJ5pPwVPz0PA5rU898/edit#heading=h.f9r6knw0rjvu)
* [Feedback on Mapping from ICG, Part 2](https://docs.google.com/document/d/11OpqMMCXM1TFXgsr4yyTQ_cH9DabnD31p7JnuTRQl28/edit?invite=CMWvruEI&ts=5e66437f)
* [Wants/Needs/Questions Open Document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/12Kpb6826TNPzzMuyPS0sESa9TLnmljQmeioWbaPeEdA/edit)
* [Working Ideas](https://github.com/islandora-interest-groups/Islandora-Metadata-Interest-Group/blob/main/working_docs/ideas_and_topics.md)
* [MIG I8 Glossary](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1cfPYFVV9qvvz2VjBRdYUN0CB7AyVDuG-GYavQ27DuBk/edit#heading=h.9fr9xw70meix)


---

#### Attending:
* Rosie Le Faive
* Paige Morfitt
* Chris Day
* Alexander O’Neill
* Angelina Crowe
* Dani Kroon
* Devon Murphy
* Elisa Naquin
* Elisabeth Ball
* Michelle Janowiecki
* Mike Bolam
* Nat
* Olivia Daniel
* Seth Shaw
* Staci L. Ross
* Yamil

### Agenda: 
* Announcements
* Co-convener update
	* Chris has agreed to be our new Co-contributor!  
* [Discussing Dates](https://docs.lefaive.ca/w/index.php/Dates_in_Drupal_and_Solr)
	* Entering dates into SOLR
		* facet date range with https://docs.lefaive.ca/w/index.php/Dates_in_Drupal_and_Solr
		* there is a build facets module. Seth did a patch to help with faceting ranges. Dates are indexed as integers. You just need the patch to make sure the java script works
		* What are the chances of SOLR updating dates? SORL only needs dates as strings. We would have to figure out what to turn our EDTF date into and throw that into SOLR. Things may not be represented in SOLR as "uncertainty". If you are willing to turn your dates into start and end points, then you could put that information into SOLR (example SOLR does not understand 2010s, but it does understand 2010-2019)
		* expanding on that idea, this is not a SOLR issue. It is part of how search APIs expect dates to be in fields. It is possible to refactor the EDTF field type and how it stores data. However, you need to make sure the date widgets still work. 
		* Question: EDTF date specific range, how is it indexed? It is a list of integers. Date range fields are indexed in SOLR.  It is indexed as a list of years. Ideally, we could use SOLR's date structure, but integer list is a short-term compromise at the time to produce something useable 
		* Rosie can create a pull request about this
		* If you enter a field in SOLR, the date will be a string. There is a allow your fields to facet
			* In Islandora, Go to Configuration -> Search in Metadata -> Search API. 
			* Go in to index and click the fields tab
			* If the EDTF field you want is not there, go to the Processers tab. 
			* Go to EDTF year (Click the box)  and at the bottom of the page a form will appear. Here you can select all the fields you want. 
			* Note: this is building a list of integers as years. And you only get one shot at this
			* Save and go back to tabs and add a field. The field will always be called EDTF creation date year (later  on, you can change the label)
			* Go back to the View Search API Index. Reindex everything. Once that is done, hopefully this will be added to your views! 
			* Caveat: to set this up, you do need to know your block id. If anyone is interested in documentation, feel free to create it! 
	* Date ambiguities
		* things we have seen: 
			* when all dates are forced to start with 01-01. Did we do that or did Islandora add that? 
			* When does Winter start? What hemisphere? 
			* How do you display circa in EDTF? 
			* How is school year displayed? 
			* Is the tilde before or after the year? 
		* what is the difference between uncertain and approximate dates? 
			* approximate could indicate you had some date in which you could reference. Uncertain is a squishy guess. However, most users don't know the difference
	* Sorting dates
		* EDTF naturally sorts lexically. You can sort on the string value if you wanted. So for range, it will sort by beginning date. 
		* It is possible to create a reaction. So, if you update an item (using an update hook) to update upon edit. It would be easy to set up a reaction, creating a hidden field for sorting and indexing purposes. 
		* With reaction, it can do this on its own, and there would be a reaction configuration for - configurable on the individual site level however. 
	* Sate slider
	* 	the patches have not been accepted because they would replace the old JQuery library. However, this may now work without the patch. 
	* 	USTC has a form to submit the filter by range of year instead of JQuery slider: https://github.com/digitalutsc/facets_year_range


    
### Next Meeting:
* Monday August 15rd, 1pm Eastern Time (Virtually as usual)
