## Islandora Metadata Interest Group Agenda
### Monday, June 6, 2022, [1-2pm EST](http://www.thetimezoneconverter.com/?t=1%20pm&tz=Toronto&)

---
* Chair: Kristina Spurgin
* Notetaker: Paige Morfitt
---

#### Join Us!
* Zoom Link: https://zoom.us/j/82790225209

#### Working Documents:
* [CLAW MIG MODS simplified mapping](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/18u2qFJ014IIxlVpM3JXfDEFccwBZcoFsjbBGpvL0jJI/edit#gid=0)
* [Example MODS for CLAW mapping](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1C2Xie7HUDSgRT5v4ldoJvlNdoXz2GHAPvL3PE3TOKW8/edit#gid=1829081124)
* [Draft Recommendations](https://docs.google.com/document/d/15qSO9YcALtYSqd6CUuGx0t8FwUJ5pPwVPz0PA5rU898/edit#heading=h.f9r6knw0rjvu)
* [Feedback on Mapping from ICG, Part 2](https://docs.google.com/document/d/11OpqMMCXM1TFXgsr4yyTQ_cH9DabnD31p7JnuTRQl28/edit?invite=CMWvruEI&ts=5e66437f)
* [Wants/Needs/Questions Open Document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/12Kpb6826TNPzzMuyPS0sESa9TLnmljQmeioWbaPeEdA/edit)
* [Working Ideas](https://github.com/islandora-interest-groups/Islandora-Metadata-Interest-Group/blob/main/working_docs/ideas_and_topics.md)

---

#### Attending:
* Kristina Spurgin
* Paige Morfitt
* Rosie Le Faive
* Mike Bolam
* Devon Murphy
* Ann Marchock
* Seth Shaw
* Rachel White




### Agenda: 
* Announcements
* Continue working on [Metadata Brain Dump Items](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1_--RimkzV5Hh6o9Gc_h4o8MC5gDVH5eI59jR_vIGEoY/edit)





### Notes
* Announcements
	* Summer break (next meeting July 18th)
	* Islandora Con – call for submissions is closed. You can [still register](https://2022.islandora.ca/about/). [There is a contest for designing the logo](https://2022.islandora.ca/logo-design/)
	* Question from Devon on Slack: I'm curious about the scale limits Islandora 8 has for content -- we're migrating one digital asset management system over already, but another digi collection with 20 mil items will also need to be migrated very soon. do u all know of any scale limits islandora 8 has or collections that have that number of published materials?
		* Possibly ask the Islandora main page. Seth Shaw possibly has done some work regarding.
*  Continue working on [Metadata Brain Dump Items](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1_--RimkzV5Hh6o9Gc_h4o8MC5gDVH5eI59jR_vIGEoY/edit) (Filling out documentation. Below are additional comments)
	*  Dates Summary:
		*  Before you clean up, it is a good idea to assess your date fields and figure out what you want to do with your dates. This could help steer what your clean up looks like (such as focusing on filtering vs. sorting). It is good to clean up your dates before you migrate. There is system behavior that is built in and could be added to help somewhat.  
		*  It would be good for people who have done cleanup to write up what they did in the clean up and why they did the clean up the way they did it and add it to MIG/share that documentation.
	*  Drupal Field settings
		* Reminder: once a field type is created and data has been added to that field, you can not edit that field type (Paying attention to how your fields are set up initially is important, and adjust fields to your data if not you may be adjusting your data to your fields)
		* Example: make sure you are aware of your field character limit. If the limit is capped at 250 characters and you end up having data that is 300 characters, it will be very difficult to change that field. It is best to be on the safe side. 
		* There is no easy tool to edit your field types once data has been added. You could write a migration (via developer help).
	* Limited Access/Local Access only 
		* It is important to look into this early on, specially if you have content (entire images or PDFs) that are both Open to the Public and is Restricted. 
		* For specific fields, it is possible to assign roles to people and allow those specific roles to see fields. 
			* When you open the field to edit, select custom permission  and you can there select which roles can see that specific field. However you want to be careful because: 
				* it is possible to create metadata and not be able to see the metadata. 
				* it is possible create metadata but not edit it. 
				* it is possible to create metadata but not edit other people's metadata
			* There is possibility to lock specific fields down so only an individual can view them (example : for people ingesting records, they can create a specific field to help  indicate when they ingested a collection, or field specifically for metadata creators to use for tracking changes in the metadata).  
		* For Access, there are two grouping modules (Rosie is working on)
			* a permission by term 
				* if your objects are set by terms it would theoretically work that way 
				* if you could homogenously apply terms across your collections
				* Ideally it would be useful to have conditional fields "If member of is X then give permission Y" however field permissions only work with check boxes...
			* an embargoes module 
				* every object has it's own permission related object
		* There is potential for restricting to IP ranges as well as setting up a hook that could trigger adding permission label. 
	* Abstracts & Descriptions
		* For Whitman, we wanted X collection to have the label "Abstract" and Y collection to have the label "Description". We ended up having to create a new field specifically for Abstract to have this happen (our instance of I8 would not let us have one field with two different labels in different collections). 
		* It is possible to create a new content type opposed to creating a new field. Other than that, you would need do have theme hooks to change labels based on collections. 
			* Creating new content types looks decently easy, however you won't get JSONLD representation and won't be indexed in Fedora. So to be indexed in Fedora, you need mappings to RDF (also you need mappings to RDF if you have OAIPMH or meta-tag mappings)
			* You can update the YML file however it is a bit tedious, or via Wizard however that is getting into the weeds of what an islandora object is.
			* There is a content type cloner out there -- however you still need to do the RDF mapping
	* Non-Latin Characters  and diacritics/symbols
		* Once they are in Islandora 8 correctly, they will work. The problem is often in the migration tool which is not given the correct code points during the migration (it's not that Drupal cannot display them, it's just the migration tool broke). By default, Drupal will display these fine, however if you use HTML title it will preserve the html. 
		* It is good to keep note of your non-Latin characters, diacritics and symbols (specifically the quotation marks and commas), so that when they are ingested into I8 you can keep an eye out for any possible migration translation errors. 
* *Next Steps*: 
	*   There was a suggestion that issues should be listed on GitHub opposed to on a google document so it can be triangulated or assessed issue-by-issue.
	*   GitHub also allows updates to be created that could indicate something has been fixed.
	*   We are open to ideas as this document evolves and in our next meeting we can start looking at way sto go forward with this document. 


 
	

    
### Next Meeting:
* July 18th
