## Islandora Metadata Interest Group Agenda
### Monday, May 9, 2022, [1-2pm EST](http://www.thetimezoneconverter.com/?t=1%20pm&tz=Toronto&)

---
* Chair: Kristina Spurgin
* Notetaker: Paige Morfitt
---

#### Join Us!
* Zoom Link: https://zoom.us/j/82790225209

#### Working Documents:
* [CLAW MIG MODS simplified mapping](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/18u2qFJ014IIxlVpM3JXfDEFccwBZcoFsjbBGpvL0jJI/edit#gid=0)
* [Example MODS for CLAW mapping](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1C2Xie7HUDSgRT5v4ldoJvlNdoXz2GHAPvL3PE3TOKW8/edit#gid=1829081124)
* [Draft Recommendations](https://docs.google.com/document/d/15qSO9YcALtYSqd6CUuGx0t8FwUJ5pPwVPz0PA5rU898/edit#heading=h.f9r6knw0rjvu)
* [Feedback on Mapping from ICG, Part 2](https://docs.google.com/document/d/11OpqMMCXM1TFXgsr4yyTQ_cH9DabnD31p7JnuTRQl28/edit?invite=CMWvruEI&ts=5e66437f)
* [Wants/Needs/Questions Open Document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/12Kpb6826TNPzzMuyPS0sESa9TLnmljQmeioWbaPeEdA/edit)
* [Working Ideas](https://github.com/islandora-interest-groups/Islandora-Metadata-Interest-Group/blob/main/working_docs/ideas_and_topics.md)

---

#### Attending:
* Kristina Spurgin
* Paige Morfitt
* Alisha Graefe
* Andrew Weidner
* Chris Day
* Mike Bolam
* Morgan A. Colbert
* Rachel White
* Rosie Le Faive
* Staci L. Ros
* Seth Shaw	




### Agenda: 
* Announcements
* Continue with [Metadata Brain Dump Items](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1_--RimkzV5Hh6o9Gc_h4o8MC5gDVH5eI59jR_vIGEoY/edit)
* Date Talk! - Looking at Date fields. 




### Notes
* Announcements 
	 * Islandora foundation is looking into breaking up Islandora defaults. In the past this group talked about separating things out (such as content types). Having separate modules would be good, however some people may not want a variety of modules as it could possibly slow the site down (however, this type of break may not impact speed so much)
 * [Metadata Brain Dump Items](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1_--RimkzV5Hh6o9Gc_h4o8MC5gDVH5eI59jR_vIGEoY/edit)
	 * "Moving terms to other taxonomies..."
	 	*   When ingesting content: will it look up terms in the system? Will it create them? When you do a migration, it creates a table for the migration. When you do another migration, you can do a “migration look-up” that looks for a value from the first migration, and return the ID. If you use the “migrate look up” plug in, the table has to be up to date inorder for terms to be up to date. If terms are merged and the ID’s don’t exist, you will get broken records. And term-merge does not update those tables. That said, if you use entity look up plug in (based on uri) that will be fine – it will only look up term id for the field property
	 	*   Workbench is a separate process. It does have a similar function as entity look up. In a way, Workbench makes more sense with newly digitized materials and Migrate tool makes more sense with batch one-time migrate
	*   "Conforming to field_subject rules..." and "Creation of Linked Agent field..." 
		* If your role is not matching the code what will happen? You can import the relator code. It’ll just show the code on the public side and after the code is added you can fix the label. However there is no way to find that code easily . It is also good to note that there is no automatic update to the relators terms already listed in Islandora– so even as the list updates, islandora 8 does not update
		*  Some workflows for field_subject and field_linked_agent are quice similar. Both (depending on your set up) require terms to have prefixes before being ingested (via workbench). For field_linked_agent (Linked agents) at least two instutions indicated that it was easier to manage via spreadsheets where each individual role was it's own column (example: a column for Editors, a column for Authors, a column for Contribuors). And then using an excel equation to combine those terms into the field_linked_agent. However this does leave the option for a lot of relator columns in your spreadsheet. 
		*  Due to the set up of field_linked_agent, if you wanted to hide a specific relator (example, you wanted to hide Editor), you either have to put Editor in an entirly different field or have your islandora instance specifically altered to hide just that relator. 
 
	
	

    
### Next Meeting:
* May 23, 2022
	* Continuation on this document, focusing on dates! 
	* Bring your various examples of dates and add them to the document!  
