## Islandora Metadata Interest Group Agenda
### Wednesday, August 3, 2022, [3-4pm ADT](https://dateful.com/convert/canada-halifax?t=4p.m.)
Hybrid meeting! Location (room) will be announced at IslandoraCon.
#### Join Us Virtually!
* Zoom Link: https://whitman.zoom.us/j/98710627863

---
* Chair: Paige Morfitt
* Notetaker: Paige Morfitt
---

#### Working Documents:
* [CLAW MIG MODS simplified mapping](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/18u2qFJ014IIxlVpM3JXfDEFccwBZcoFsjbBGpvL0jJI/edit#gid=0)
* [Example MODS for CLAW mapping](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1C2Xie7HUDSgRT5v4ldoJvlNdoXz2GHAPvL3PE3TOKW8/edit#gid=1829081124)
* [Draft Recommendations](https://docs.google.com/document/d/15qSO9YcALtYSqd6CUuGx0t8FwUJ5pPwVPz0PA5rU898/edit#heading=h.f9r6knw0rjvu)
* [Feedback on Mapping from ICG, Part 2](https://docs.google.com/document/d/11OpqMMCXM1TFXgsr4yyTQ_cH9DabnD31p7JnuTRQl28/edit?invite=CMWvruEI&ts=5e66437f)
* [Wants/Needs/Questions Open Document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/12Kpb6826TNPzzMuyPS0sESa9TLnmljQmeioWbaPeEdA/edit)
* [Working Ideas](https://github.com/islandora-interest-groups/Islandora-Metadata-Interest-Group/blob/main/working_docs/ideas_and_topics.md)
* [MIG I8 Glossary](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1cfPYFVV9qvvz2VjBRdYUN0CB7AyVDuG-GYavQ27DuBk/edit#heading=h.9fr9xw70meix)


---

#### Attending:
* Paige Morfitt
* Rosie Le Faive
* Chris Day
* Andrew Weidner
* Harriet South
* Mike Bolam
* Staci Ross
* Yamil

### Agenda: 
* Announcements
	*  Has anyone done anything with 3-dimensional renders metadata wise? Such as 3-d scans of awards or busts or things like that? 
		*  WIll FITS spit out useful data? Rosie was considering this. 
		*  It would be good to use this an an example and add that as a type of media type
		*  For virtual reality stimulations -- metadata was kept at a high level, and established a controlled vocabulary 
		*  Having a way to identify them would be helpful. 
		*  Drawling the line between digital rendition and the physical object is a fuzzy area 
		*  The problem is really the technical rather than the descriptive metadata 
		*  Mike will report back on what
	*  Collection with different objects and different metadata profiles
		*  Will go direction of having different content types for each object
		*  Rosie submitted a pull request that is a view filter called “is this an islandora object?” (https://github.com/Islandora/islandora/pull/881)  This looks at the field model and this drives the views. It will be easier to make multiple content types behave as islandora
			*  This removes field_model
* IslandoraCon discussion
	* Waiting to catch up on work to play around in the examples
	* Shared folder : not limited by user. Maybe it matters if you give someone the link. But that is untested. 
		* It may only require a google account 
		* Paige can check with Isabella if we can share the link to the Google Drive
		* Some presentations are already up (https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCCiQwdLWwrTNE6yToDKG3Uw/videos) 
		* Use-a-thon
			* https://github.com/Islandora-Devops/islandora_install_profile_demo/pull/11
			* Rosie’s pull request. There are some sticking points 
			* Yamil is interested in looking into this and helping out
* Metadata projects/issues discussion
	* Date fields: What date fields are being used? 
		* At Whitman we are using three date fields, but also we need one for newspapers, and then the ones generated by islandora automatically... 
		* One date field to be displayed in EDTF, and that is generating a sort and readable date. Generating display date only works as well as what you write up to interpret. And there is messiness in dates. 
			* Extracting dates from other sources comes with encoding, and archival dates cause problems because they are rendered in a way that cannot be understood. 
		* Regarding metadata clean up, it is easier to clean at a smaller institution, how does that work at larger institutions? No overall large clean up is possible, but there have been windows of opportunities (between migrations) where there have been clean up opportunities. 
Regarding metadata over all, some things could be updated via bulk ingest. 
			* At Pitt, they look at DPLA recommendations and make bulk cleans. 
			* For dates, there are a lot of blanks on archival stuff and they are working on getting that filled out to at least the century
			* PITT exports the data, works via OpenRefine then pushes it back into the system
			* Maybe targeting a specific type of date field, such as only targeting the blank date fields to help narrow it down. 
			* Depending on the origin of the data and how complex the MODS is (as well as what you are changing) using oXygen helps as well. Flattening the data and using the csv importer is another opportunity. They never use the forms, use the tools. 
		* Can you do remediation within islandora 2? Things Paige has done has been directly in islandora 2 (manually). What batch remediation looks like in Islandora 2.0
			* A lot of batch will happen after ingest
			* You have to be careful when editing terms in islandora 8, such as terms, you can not get a list of all objects that use that term. So it’s a tricky process
			* There is work regarding cleaning metadata in the works. 
			* Views bulk editing (or bulk action). Using that to work with taxonomy for when you want to replace terms 
			* https://github.com/Islandora/documentation/issues/1696 
		* Where is everyone at? 
			*  More on functionality conversations. And conversations around the fact that islandora 8 (islandora 2 is much different) 
			*  Whitman is fully migrated
			*  Some are in the clean up stage
			*  Some at preparatory stage, doing some testing 
			*  Preparing for migration. Featuring out the system. Using islandora data tools and getting sense of data for the migration. 
			*  Some are migrating to ISLE 
		* Questions:Dates. What people were considering the different between approximate and uncertain 
			* It would be interesting to ask Library Twitter or Magical Facebook 
			* Looking at approximate, uncertain, and questionable 
			* Cataloger-wise. Looking at marc standard https://www.loc.gov/marc/bibliographic/bd008a.html
			* In code, no distinguish between questionable and approximate because in MARC they are all questionable. 
			* Questionable: if you have a reason to not trust the source of the date. 
			* RDA guidance:
    
### Next Meeting:
* August 29
