## Islandora Metadata Interest Group Agenda
### Monday, October 24, 2022, [1-2pm EST](http://www.thetimezoneconverter.com/?t=1%20pm&tz=Toronto&)
#### Join Us Virtually!
* Zoom Link: https://us02web.zoom.us/j/93923574947?pwd=Z1kyY01veFJNbFZFVUg4Mm1jS1FyZz09

---
## Chair Roster
* Paige Morfitt 📝
* Rosie Le Faive 🤼‍♀️
* Chris Day 🪑
---

#### Working Documents:
* [CLAW MIG MODS simplified mapping](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/18u2qFJ014IIxlVpM3JXfDEFccwBZcoFsjbBGpvL0jJI/edit#gid=0)
* [Example MODS for CLAW mapping](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1C2Xie7HUDSgRT5v4ldoJvlNdoXz2GHAPvL3PE3TOKW8/edit#gid=1829081124)
* [Draft Recommendations](https://docs.google.com/document/d/15qSO9YcALtYSqd6CUuGx0t8FwUJ5pPwVPz0PA5rU898/edit#heading=h.f9r6knw0rjvu)
* [Feedback on Mapping from ICG, Part 2](https://docs.google.com/document/d/11OpqMMCXM1TFXgsr4yyTQ_cH9DabnD31p7JnuTRQl28/edit?invite=CMWvruEI&ts=5e66437f)
* [Wants/Needs/Questions Open Document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/12Kpb6826TNPzzMuyPS0sESa9TLnmljQmeioWbaPeEdA/edit)
* [Working Ideas](https://github.com/islandora-interest-groups/Islandora-Metadata-Interest-Group/blob/main/working_docs/ideas_and_topics.md)
* [MIG I8 Glossary](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1cfPYFVV9qvvz2VjBRdYUN0CB7AyVDuG-GYavQ27DuBk/edit#heading=h.9fr9xw70meix)
* [Field of the Week](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1rk0o_0byzeHrSKst0Feval_QeVZmo2DeIP0Mk3jaaFc/edit)

---

#### Attending:
 * Chris
 * Paige
 * Rosie
 * Devon Murphy
 * Elisa Naquin
 * Harriet South
 * Meghan Elise Cash
 * Mike Bolam
 * Seth Shaw


### Agenda: 
* Note: This agenda was originally for the meeting scheduled for October 10th that was postponed.
* Announcements
* Field Of The Week: [Linked Agent](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1rk0o_0byzeHrSKst0Feval_QeVZmo2DeIP0Mk3jaaFc/edit#heading=h.kx3yrhwfpcvj)
  * Out-of-the-box configuration
  * Outside Default/Starter Site Uses
  * Islandora 8 Ingest
  * Sorting
  * What Is Missing?
* Open Conversation as time allows


### Notes: 
* Announcements: 
  * Open meeting tomorrow. community discussion on what you want Islandora to do for you. It may be recorded, but hopefully documentation will become available
 * Field Of The Week: [Linked Agent](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1rk0o_0byzeHrSKst0Feval_QeVZmo2DeIP0Mk3jaaFc/edit#heading=h.kx3yrhwfpcvj)
   * Out of the box: 
     * Typed Relation field – lets us have a name and  attach a role to that name (roles that have been provided) 
     * Roles based on MARC relators is two short of the full list (degreeCommitteeMember and PlaceOfAddress are both missing) – note: you can add those two back in
     * Each instance of a name can only have one relator per linked agent field. However, that relator is not permanently attached to that name (the same name can have different roles). If you need to attach multiple roles to a single name in an object, you could repeat the name within the metadata 
     * [There is documentation associated with it](https://islandora.github.io/documentation/user-documentation/metadata/)
     * Three taxonomies are tied to linked agents. Nothing built in that would use the additional metadata attached to the taxonomy
     * Notes out of the box: if you wanted them (linked agents)  sorted, and you have someone who understands twig, you could put the ordering in your theme layer
   * Outside of default/starter site use
     * Separate out types of name in separate fields – one field with person name, and second field with specification (one field for persons, one field for corporate bodies, etc)
     * Having multiple instances of Linked Agent:  You could separate out, say, primary Linked Agent, then have associated role fields like donor. This allows you to have your donor field that, on your choosing, is not appearing to the public.
    * Islandora 8 (Islandora 2.0) Ingest: 
      * [Workbench documentation for Typed Relations](https://mjordan.github.io/islandora_workbench_docs/fields/#typed-relation-fields)
        * If there is missing role or missing taxonomy, it is unclear where that term goes
       * Metadata Form
         * If Linked Agent field is linked to multiple taxonomies, on the fly, you could only pick one taxonomy
    * Sorting/Faceting:
      * In Solr View: you can create facets for specific roles. Unsure where or how those get created. It may work on install profile site, but not work in non-install profile site. 
      * Note: ASU did it. Could be part of Islandora advanced search module. Update: ASU uses a custom code for facets based on relators. It is possible that the islandora search solution is more generalizable
      * If you wanted facet, “Creator” that would list names that show up as creator in search results, and if you say you only want to see “Chris Day” as creator, is this something that is possible? Yes. And it may be the advanced search, but need to double check on that
      * On standard view, if you create a relationship to taxonomy tables, you could enter a value “filter by XXX-name” and use that relationship as a base of a filter.
      * How would you sort by relator code? Views allows adding sort plugins, and you could say “sort by this aspect”. It would be by code not label (adding the label would be more challenging as part of the sort). And the sort would be alphabetical. 
    * What are we missing? What do we want more from Linked Agent?
      * Good to note: MODS 3.8 update: they made agent inside of origin info as a new element. Agent has the same children as Name – so you no longer need to call out the Publisher if the phrasing doesn’t work. This helps in handling publishers and other agents as names([new agent page](https://www.loc.gov/standards/mods/userguide/origininfo.html#agent_))
        * MODS (and MARC) has names with types and it’s not encoded. 
        * It is a repeatable agent within MODS within a single originInfo (no validation error in oXygen). 
        * If you wanted to have a field that was separated out established as “The agent” connected to the production/distribution, you could create another Typed Relation field and group together with other Origin Info fields and get specific with that. 
      * Making this field inversible: if you have a photo where Linked Agent is “photographer”, and you go to the photographers page, you’d want that photographer's page to list the photos the photographer is listed as “photographer” in. That’s not quite possible in View, but it’s messy (Part is teaching the system what the inverses should be)  UNLV adds both directions. 
        *  Question: if you click on a name, it takes you to a page where it lists all notes the name appears in? Yes. The inverse would allow you to know what those things are. 
            *  If you have a relationship between two people, (parent and child) you’d have to add the inverse (inverse is not automatically created)  
        *  It would be interesting to record versions of names in a taxonomy and have that indexed (so if you search Chris day or Christopher Day you’d be brought to the same node). 
          *  Synonyms: https://www.drupal.org/project/synonyms it looks like it is possible, though untested. There are ways to list “Same As” either as an additional term, but you could add your own synonym provider.
   *  Open Discussion
       *  Anyone currently using islandora with names, if so, are you using full names? UNLV was. York University iis cleaning names for migration – including names, alternate names, and birth/death dates. Curious how work on spreadsheets will translate into islandora. Would like more conversations around this. 
       *  They Started with a list of personal names, and looking at reliable authority records online, and logging that info. THe next step is to work locally to create formatting policy.  And part of that job is looking at required formatting for Islandora (like Dates has required formatting). 
         *  For getting those things into islandora (like birth/death dates for LInked Agents), you may want to look into Workbench to get that rich metadata for names in. 
         *   Austin is doing a similar clean up and validation work. 
         *   PITT is using strings for I7. 







    
### Next Meeting:
* Nov 7, 2022 [Daylight Savings Time]
